March 17, 2023 — 08:52 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


A highly encouraging quarterly and annual earnings report was the wave that crested Zim Integrated Shipping Services' (NYSE: ZIM) share price higher this week. According to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, the container logistics company enjoyed a nearly 23% surge in stock price in the Monday-Friday period as a result.
Zim kicked off the week with that earnings release on Monday, and this blast of bullishness lasted until market close on Friday. At first glance, the company's fourth-quarter figures were discouraging, as it recorded declines on both the top and bottom lines.  
Those declines were steep, too, with revenue eroding by 37% year over year and net income tumbling by an outwardly frightening 76%. It was hardly a surprise, then, the following day when no less an entity than JPMorgan Chase cut its price target on the shares. Analyst Samuel Bland was the man wielding the scissors, trimming his level to $27 per share from his previous estimation of $30.40. 
Yet, crucially, Bland maintained his overweight (read: buy) recommendation on the stock, a sentiment reflected by more than a few investors. After all, despite those double-digit declines, Zim's headline fourth-quarter results actually beat analyst estimates, and beat them convincingly. 
It also helped the stock that the market was entirely expecting steep declines in the fundamentals. The macroeconomic environment was challenging in late 2022, because of high inflation, rising interest rates, and a global economy many felt was weakening. The environment is somewhat brighter now, and investors are expecting smoother sailing for Zim and its shipping industry peers in the coming months. 
10 stocks we like better than Zim Integrated Shipping ServicesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Zim Integrated Shipping Services wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase. The Motley Fool recommends Zim Integrated Shipping Services. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.