March 17, 2023 — 02:08 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Demitri Kalogeropoulos for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Cadre (NYSE: CDRE) stock underperformed the market this week. The company, which sells safety equipment to first responders, saw its stock fall 11% through early Friday trading compared to a 1.6% increase in the wider market, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence. That drop was enough to put Cadre into negative territory for the year, down 7% so far in 2023.
It was sparked by an earnings report that attracted a lukewarm reception on Wall Street.
The company announced on Wednesday that sales landed at $124 million in the Q4 period that ended in late December, edging past the outlook that management issued back in mid-November.
Cadre benefited from higher prices, along with solid demand in a few key niches. Management said in a press release that the strong end to the fiscal year reflected their ability to "capitalize on our entrenched positions in law enforcement, first responder, and military markets."
Profitability declined though, mainly due to financial pressure from recent large acquisitions. Cadre generated $17 million of operating income this year, compared to $52 million in 2021.
Wall Street wasn't excited with Cadre's 2023 outlook that calls for sales to land between $463 million and $493 million. At the low end, that forecast implies revenue gains of just 1%. Additional acquisitions might push this figure higher, at the expense of reduced short-term profits. But a recession could also push sales lower at a faster rate. 
Looking further out, Cadre is hoping to push profit margins higher over time through a mix of acquisitions, organic growth, and growing scale. Investors might need to be patient as they watch for progress in these areas, though, as the new fiscal year seems likely to deliver only modest sales gains.
That outlook doesn't threaten the bullish thesis for this stock, but it does mean investors might see more volatility in the share price until sales trends start accelerating again.
10 stocks we like better than CadreWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Cadre wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Demitri Kalogeropoulos has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.