March 16, 2023 — 10:38 am EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Investors in Maxar Technologies Inc (Symbol: MAXR) saw new options begin trading this week, for the October 20th expiration.  One of the key data points that goes into the price an option buyer is willing to pay, is the time value, so with 218 days until expiration the newly trading contracts represent a potential opportunity for sellers of puts or calls to achieve a higher premium than would be available for the contracts with a closer expiration.   At Stock Options Channel, our YieldBoost formula has looked up and down the MAXR options chain for the new October 20th contracts and identified the following put contract of particular interest.
The put contract at the $40.00 strike price has a current bid of 15 cents.  If an investor was to sell-to-open that put contract, they are committing to purchase the stock at $40.00, but will also collect the premium, putting the cost basis of the shares at $39.85 (before broker commissions).  To an investor already interested in purchasing shares of MAXR, that could represent an attractive alternative to paying $50.88/share today.


Because the $40.00 strike represents an approximate 21% discount to the current trading price of the stock (in other words it is out-of-the-money by that percentage), there is also the possibility that the put contract would expire worthless.  The current analytical data (including greeks and implied greeks) suggest the current odds of that happening are 77%.  Stock Options Channel will track those odds over time to see how they change, publishing a chart of those numbers on our website under the contract detail page for this contract.  Should the contract expire worthless, the premium would represent a 0.38% return on the cash commitment, or 0.63% annualized — at Stock Options Channel we call this the YieldBoost.



Below is a chart showing the trailing twelve month trading history for Maxar Technologies Inc, and highlighting in green where the $40.00 strike is located relative to that history:












Meanwhile, we calculate the actual trailing twelve month volatility (considering the last 251 trading day closing values as well as today's price of $50.88) to be 95%.  For more put and call options contract ideas worth looking at, visit StockOptionsChannel.com.

Top YieldBoost Puts of the S&P 500 »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.