March 16, 2023 — 08:37 am EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the underlying holdings of the ETFs in our coverage universe at ETF Channel, we have compared the trading price of each holding against the average analyst 12-month forward target price, and computed the weighted average implied analyst target price for the ETF itself. 	For the iShares MSCI USA Min Vol Factor ETF (Symbol: USMV), we found that the implied analyst target price for the ETF based upon its underlying holdings is $80.26 per unit.



With USMV trading at a recent price near $69.91 per unit, that means that analysts see 14.80% upside for this ETF looking through to the average analyst targets of the underlying holdings.   Three of USMV's underlying holdings with notable upside to their analyst target prices are Knight-Swift Transportation Holdings Inc (Symbol: KNX), Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (Symbol: CTSH), and Aon plc (Symbol: AON). Although KNX has traded at a recent price of $53.40/share, the average analyst target is 23.73% higher at $66.07/share. Similarly, CTSH has 16.04% upside from the recent share price of $57.07 if the average analyst target price of $66.22/share is reached, and analysts on average are expecting AON to reach a target price of $331.30/share, which is 15.90% above the recent price of $285.85. Below is a twelve month price history chart comparing the stock performance of KNX, CTSH, and AON:  











Below is a summary table of the current analyst target prices discussed above:



Are analysts justified in these targets, or overly optimistic about where these stocks will be trading 12 months from now? Do the analysts have a valid justification for their targets, or are they behind the curve on recent company and industry developments? A high price target relative to a stock's trading price can reflect optimism about the future, but can also be a precursor to target price downgrades if the targets were a relic of the past. These are questions that require further investor research.  



10 ETFs With Most Upside To Analyst Targets »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.