March 16, 2023 — 05:33 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Book/Market Investor model based on the published strategy of Joseph Piotroski. This value-quant strategy screens for high book-to-market stocks, and then separates out financially sound firms by looking at a host of improving financial criteria.
UNITED NATURAL FOODS INC (UNFI) is a small-cap value stock in the Food Processing industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 0% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: United Natural Foods, Inc. is a distributor of grocery and non-food products, and support services provider to retailers in the United States and Canada. The Company operates through two segments: Wholesale and Retail. It also has a manufacturing division and a branded product line division. The Wholesale segment is engaged in the distribution of grocery and non-food products, and support services provider to retailers in the United States and Canada. The Retail segment is engaged in the sale of groceries and other products at retail locations operated by the Company. Other includes a single location food manufacturing business, which engages in the importing, roasting, packaging and distributing of nuts, dried fruit, seeds, trail mixes, granola, natural and organic snack items and confections, and the Company's natural branded product lines, primarily Blue Marble Brands.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of UNITED NATURAL FOODS INC
UNFI Guru Analysis
UNFI Fundamental Analysis
Joseph Piotroski Portfolio
About Joseph Piotroski:  Piotroski isn't your typical Wall Street big shot. In fact, he's not even a professional investor. He's a good old numbers-crunching accountant and college professor. But in 2000, shortly after he started teaching at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Piotroski published a groundbreaking paper in the Journal of Accounting Research entitled "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers". In it, Piotroski laid out an accounting-based stock-selection/shorting method that produced a 23 percent average annual back-tested return from 1976 through 1996 -- more than double the S&P 500's gain during that time. Piotroski's findings were reported in major financial publiations like SmartMoney. Today, he teaches accounting at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.