March 16, 2023 — 05:33 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Small-Cap Growth Investor model based on the published strategy of Motley Fool. This strategy looks for small cap growth stocks with solid fundamentals and strong price performance.
CPI CARD GROUP INC (PMTS) is a small-cap value stock in the Consumer Financial Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 69% to 76% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: CPI Card Group Inc. is a payment technology company and a provider of comprehensive financial payment card solutions in the United States. The Company's segments include Debit and Credit, Prepaid Debit and Other. The Debit and Credit segment primarily produces financial payment cards and provides integrated card services for card-issuing financial institutions and fintech's primarily in the United States. Products produced by this segment primarily include EMV and non-EMV Financial Payment Cards, including contact and contactless (dual interface) cards and plastic and encased metal cards, and Second Wave payment cards featuring a core made with ROBP, and other private label credit cards that are not issued on the networks of the Payment Cards Brands. The Prepaid Debit segment primarily provides integrated prepaid card services to prepaid debit card providers in the United States, including tamper-evident security packaging. This segment also produces financial payment cards.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of CPI CARD GROUP INC
PMTS Guru Analysis
PMTS Fundamental Analysis
Motley Fool Portfolio
About Motley Fool: Brothers David and Tom Gardner often wear funny hats in public appearances, but they're hardly fools -- at least not the kind whose advice you should readily dismiss. The Gardners are the founders of the popular Motley Fool web site, which offers frank and often irreverent commentary on investing, the stock market, and personal finance. The Gardners' "Fool" really is a multi-media endeavor, offering not only its web content but also several books written by the brothers, a weekly syndicated newspaper column, and subscription newsletter services.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.