March 16, 2023 — 05:10 am EDT

      Written by
                        Stefon Walters for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Cybersecurity has been described as a new type of insurance for businesses. In the same way that people purchase car insurance to help prevent having to pay large expenses in the event of an accident, businesses purchase cybersecurity products and services for a similar reason. Cybersecurity attacks can be very costly for a business, both financially and reputationally.
The average cost of a single business-related data breach in 2006 was $3.6 million. In 2022, the cost jumped to $9.44 million. When combining all these breach costs together, Cybersecurity Ventures estimates that the global cost of cybercrimes will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 15% over the next few years and total nearly $10.5 trillion by 2025. It's no wonder cybersecurity has become indispensable for so many businesses.
Where there's huge demand, there's money to be made for companies and their investors. But which company should you invest in? That's a question not easily answered. The easy answer may, in fact, be to just invest in cybersecurity broadly instead of focusing on individual companies. A great way to do that is through the Vanguard Information Technology ETF (NYSEMKT: VGT).
The Vanguard Information Technology ETF isn't as concentrated as other cybersecurity ETFs, but it has advantages for investors. While some cybersecurity ETFs invest in around 30 or so companies, this ETF has holdings in 368 companies covering all aspects of the sector. It contains large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap companies, so you'll get access to titans like Apple and Microsoft (yes, these tech giants have cybersecurity segments to their businesses), as well as younger, faster-growing companies like CrowdStrike.
Here's how the ETF is broken down by industry:
Even with a tech-concentrated ETF like this, it's good to have diversification within it. Cybersecurity is a fairly wide umbrella that covers many segments. Investing in companies that operate in more niche technology industries can give investors exposure while limiting some of the risks of investing in individual companies (especially smaller ones).
Since its formation in January 2004, the Vanguard Information Technology ETF has averaged 11.6% annual returns. In the past 10 years, average returns have been over 18.6%, outperforming the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite by a decent margin.

Data by YCharts.
Past results don't guarantee future performance, but it's reassuring to know the ETF has had sustained success over the years -- especially considering that many of the companies it contains operate in a relatively young industry.
Although the cybersecurity industry has grown considerably in the past few years, research by McKinsey suggests that only around 10% of digital security solutions have been penetrated. That would put the total addressable market (TAM) around $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion.
For perspective, here are some cybersecurity segments, their TAM, and penetration as of the end of 2021:
Data source: McKinsey.
The cybersecurity market isn't likely to cross the $1 trillion threshold anytime soon, but this shows just how much long-term potential there is. As companies progressively see the importance of cybersecurity and begin to fund it more in line with industry expectations, cybersecurity products and services should see penetration at much higher rates.
Given the diversity of the Vanguard Information Technology ETF, investors can get wider exposure to the specific segments within the broader cybersecurity umbrella. As the industry grows long-term, so should the value it returns to investors.
10 stocks we like better than Vanguard World Fund-Vanguard Information Technology ETFWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Vanguard World Fund-Vanguard Information Technology ETF wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Stefon Walters has positions in Apple and Microsoft. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple, CrowdStrike, and Microsoft. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.