March 15, 2023 — 03:25 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of SentinelOne (NYSE: S) climbed on Wednesday after the cyber defense specialist reported torrid sales growth and progress toward profitability. As of 2:53 p.m. ET, its stock price was up more than 8%.
SentinelOne's revenue rocketed 92% year over year to $126.1 million in its fiscal 2023 fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, fueled by strong demand for its endpoint and cloud security solutions. 
SentinelOne's customer count surged by 50% to more than 10,000. The cybersecurity provider also earned more business from its existing clients, as evidenced by its impressive net revenue-retention rate of over 130%.
"We continued to secure businesses of all sizes across geographies driven by stronger sales execution and higher win rates against legacy and large next-gen security vendors," CEO Tomer Weingarten and Chief Financial Officer Dave Bernhardt said in a letter to shareholders. 
Moreover, SentinelOne's profit margins improved markedly as it scaled its operations. Its adjusted gross margin rose to 75% from 66% in the prior-year quarter, while its adjusted operating margin increased to negative 35% from negative 66%. SentinelOne's adjusted net loss per share, in turn, narrowed to $0.13 from $0.17 in the year-ago period.
Management noted that the current economic environment is driving its customers to be more conservative with their technology investments. However, Weingarten and Bernhardt said, "the enterprise need for cybersecurity remains mission critical." 
Thus, SentinelOne expects its revenue to grow to between $631 million and $640 million in fiscal 2024, up from $422 million in fiscal 2023. The company also sees its adjusted operating margin improving to negative 25% to 29% from negative 49%.
"Looking ahead, we plan to remain dynamic by strategically investing in key growth areas and ensure that our path to profitability does not deviate across different economic scenarios," Weingarten and Bernhardt said. 
10 stocks we like better than SentinelOneWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and SentinelOne wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.