March 15, 2023 — 03:05 pm EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


The directors of a company tend to have a unique inside view into the business, so when directors make major buys, investors are wise to take notice.  Presumably the only reason a director of a company would choose to take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock in the open market, is that they expect to make money — maybe they find the stock very undervalued, or maybe they see exciting progress within the company, or maybe both.  So in this series we look at the largest insider buys by company directors over the trailing six month period, one of which was a total of $943K by Michael B. Nash, Director at Blackstone Mortgage Trust Inc (Symbol: BXMT).
	



Nash's average cost works out to $18.86/share. In trading on Wednesday, bargain hunters could buy shares of Blackstone Mortgage Trust Inc (Symbol: BXMT) and achieve a cost basis lower than Nash, with shares changing hands as low as $17.30 per share.  Shares of Blackstone Mortgage Trust Inc were changing hands at $18.02 at last check, trading off about 3.3% on Wednesday.  The chart below shows the one year performance of BXMT shares, versus its 200 day moving average:














Looking at the chart above, BXMT's low point in its 52 week range is $17.30 per share, with $32.905 as the 52 week high point — that compares with a last trade of $18.02.



The current annualized dividend paid by Blackstone Mortgage Trust Inc is $2.48/share, currently paid in quarterly installments, and its most recent dividend ex-date was on 12/29/2022.  Below is a long-term dividend history chart for BXMT, which can be of good help in judging whether the most recent dividend with approx. 13.3% annualized yield is likely to continue.
			











Click here to find out which other top insider buys by company directors you need to know about »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.