March 15, 2023 — 02:39 pm EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the sectors faring worst as of midday Wednesday, shares of Energy companies are underperforming other sectors, showing a 6.7% loss.  Within that group, Marathon Oil Corp. (Symbol: MRO) and Halliburton Company (Symbol: HAL) are two large stocks that are lagging, showing a loss of 10.3% and 9.8%, respectively.  Among energy ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLE), which is down 6.1% on the day, and down 9.03% year-to-date.  Marathon Oil Corp., meanwhile, is down 18.30% year-to-date, and Halliburton Company, is down 19.50% year-to-date.  Combined, MRO and HAL make up approximately 3.2% of the underlying holdings of XLE.


The next worst performing sector is the Materials sector, showing a 4.1% loss.  Among large Materials stocks, Steel Dynamics Inc. (Symbol: STLD) and Nucor Corp. (Symbol: NUE) are the most notable, showing a loss of 12.4% and 8.0%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Materials stocks is the Materials Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLB), which is down 3.9% in midday trading, and down 2.99% on a year-to-date basis.  Steel Dynamics Inc., meanwhile, is up 6.99% year-to-date, and Nucor Corp. is up 9.69% year-to-date.  Combined, STLD and NUE make up approximately 6.4% of the underlying holdings of XLB.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Wednesday.  As you can see, one sector is up on the day, while eight sectors are down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.