March 15, 2023 — 11:41 am EDT

      Written by
                        Chris Neiger for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of the ride-hailing company Uber Technologies (NYSE: UBER) were sliding today despite an analyst maintaining his buy rating on the stock and raising his price target for Uber's shares.
The drop comes a day after a California appeals court ruled that Uber drivers can be classified as independent contractors and not employees. Investors jumped on the stock yesterday on that news, but they may be pulling back today as they weigh the broader sentiment in the stock market. 
The stock fell by as much as 3% this morning and was down 2.2% at 11:29 a.m. ET. 
Yesterday, Uber investors were happy to hear that the company's drivers can be designated as independent contractors. Then, today, Deutsche Bank reiterated its buy rating for Uber stock and raised its price target for the company's shares from $42 to $44. 
You'd be right to assume that with these two bits of good news Uber's stock would be edging higher again today, but investors are likely pushing Uber's shares down as the broader market slides on worries about the banking industry.
After the collapse of both SVB Financial and Signature Bank over the past week, investors grew concerned about Swiss bank Credit Suisse after it said that it found "certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting" for 2020 and 2021. Additionally, Saudi National Bank, which is Credit Suisse's largest investor, said today that it won't provide the bank with any additional funding. 
If you're wondering why a Swiss bank's troubles are affecting a U.S. ride-sharing company, the answer lies in how jittery some investors are right now over the stability of the banking system. The Credit Suisse news sent the S&P 500 down 1.5% and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite down 1.1% today. 
Banking industry woes aside, Uber investors will want to continue to keep a close eye on the company's legal issues. The recent California appeals court ruling will likely be challenged in the California Supreme Court.
And with the current pessimism in the broader market, investors may want to brace for more share price instability in the short term. 
10 stocks we like better than Uber TechnologiesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Uber Technologies wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Chris Neiger has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends SVB Financial and Uber Technologies. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.