March 15, 2023 — 10:48 am EDT

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The financial sector has been under pressure for the past week or so, fueled by the collapse of SVB Financial's Silicon Valley Bank. And leading the way on Wednesday is Credit Suisse (NYSE: CS), with shares down by 24% as of 9:50 a.m. ET and the stock reaching a fresh 52-week low.
Credit Suisse has been struggling in recent years, and it has a massive strategic restructuring underway. As part of that, the bank raised $4.2 billion in capital in 2022, with the Saudi National Bank acquiring a 9.9% stake, becoming Credit Suisse's largest investor.
On Wednesday, in the midst of tremendous uncertainty and investor anxiety in the banking industry, the Saudi National Bank said that it cannot provide the bank with any further financial assistance. Without getting too technical, it's generally not desirable from a regulatory standpoint for any single investor to own more than 10% of a bank's stock.
This comes on the heels of the bank's Tuesday announcement that it found "material weaknesses" in its 2021 and 2022 financial reporting processes. Plus, the bank reported elevated levels of withdrawals in the fourth quarter, and investors simply don't seem convinced Credit Suisse isn't going to need to raise more capital.
Credit Suisse CEO Ulrich Körner said in a Wednesday interview that the bank's liquidity is very strong and that the firm exceeds all regulatory requirements. However, it's not difficult to see why this news is scaring investors. Credit Suisse is now trading for roughly 75% below its 52-week high, but it's tough to know if the stock is a viable long-term investment with so many ongoing issues.
10 stocks we like better than Credit Suisse Group AgWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Credit Suisse Group Ag wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Matthew Frankel, CFP® has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends SVB Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.