March 14, 2023 — 04:24 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Danny Vena for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Appian (NASDAQ: APPN) were trading higher on Tuesday, jumping as much as 4.9% in early trading. As of 3:04 p.m. ET, the shares had given back some of the gains but were still up 2%.
While the broader market move provided some fuel for its move higher, the low-code software provider was selected as a leading solutions provider to the insurance industry.
Everest Group, a leading global research firm, selected Appian as a Leader in its inaugural insurance technology report. The Digital Claims in Property and Casualty (P&C) Insurance report for 2023 highlighted Appian's low-code, industry-focused solutions. The report noted that Appian's Connected Claims solution
offers a robust set of applications to streamline claims management; a strong investment roadmap to leverage AI, blockchain, and IoT; low-code capabilities for quick deployment; and a powerful partner ecosystem.
Appian's recognition as a Leader in the report is based on its strong value proposition to fulfill P & C carrier needs across the claims value chain.
Appian has had a tough time over the past couple of years, with the stock currently down a whopping 83% from its peak in early 2021. The company has continued to generate solid revenue growth, but profits have remained elusive.
In the fourth quarter, Appian's revenue grew 20% year over year to $66 million, led by its cloud-subscription services, which climbed 29%. At the same time, its cloud-revenue retention rate clocked in at a respectable 115%. Unfortunately, the company's losses continued to mount, as its non-GAAP loss per share of $0.28 worsened compared to a per-share loss of $0.16 in the prior-year quarter. Perhaps more concerning was its ongoing problem of cash flow (or lack thereof), as Appian saw an outflow of nearly $13 million from operating activities.
The industry accolades notwithstanding, investors should keep an eye on Appian's financial performance and watch for positive cash flow before initiating or adding to an existing position.
10 stocks we like better than AppianWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Appian wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Danny Vena has positions in Appian. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Appian. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.