March 15, 2023 — 06:30 am EDT

      Written by
                        Katie Brockman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


It's a nerve-racking time to be an investor, so if you're feeling anxious about the stock market, you're not alone.
Several recent events have caused concern for many investors -- including the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and crypto exchange FTX, and threats of an upcoming recession. The general market volatility over the past year has also worried many people, and it can be tempting to press the pause button on investing for now.
Sometimes, that's not necessarily a bad thing. In other cases, though, you're better off continuing to invest despite these unnerving events. Here's how to decide what you should do.
Image source: Getty Images.
If you're a long-term investor, volatility over the coming weeks or months isn't too concerning. As long as you leave your money in the market until prices recover, you can simply ride out the storm without experiencing any losses.
But if you invest all your spare cash and then face an unexpected expense, it could be costly.
Nobody knows for certain how the market will perform in the near term, and there's a chance stock prices could have further to fall. If prices drop and then you suddenly need the money you've invested, you might have no choice but to sell your investments at a discount and lock in those losses.
If you're going to continue investing right now, it's wise to ensure you have at least a few months' worth of savings stashed away in an emergency fund. That way, if you do face an unexpected expense, you can cover it without having to touch your investments.
If your finances are in good shape and you have a healthy emergency fund, right now can be a fantastic time to invest -- even if more volatility is on the way.
Share prices are lower than they've been in a long time. Some stocks are down 50% or more from their peak a year or two ago, which means now is a smart time to load up on quality investments for a much lower cost.
It can be daunting to invest during the market's low points, especially if prices fall further. But this strategy can save you a lot of money over time. If you only invest when the market is thriving, you're paying a premium on your shares and spending far more than you need to over the long run.
Buying during the slumps can also put you in an excellent position to see significant returns when the market inevitably rebounds.
For example, say you had invested in Amazon in 2008, at the height of the Great Recession. At that point, its price had fallen more than 65% from its peak, and it might not have seemed like the best time to buy.
But if you had bought during the low point and simply held your investment, you would have seen returns of over 370% in the following two years alone. Within five years, those returns would have skyrocketed to 935%

AMZN data by YCharts.
Of course, not all companies will experience Amazon-like returns. But the best way to maximize your earnings in the stock market is to invest in quality stocks when their prices are lower, then hold those investments through the recovery.
Timing the market effectively is next to impossible, because stock prices can be unpredictable in the short term. While we do know that a bull market is coming eventually (no downturn can last forever), it's unclear exactly when it will begin.
Also, because the market is constantly fluctuating, we might not even know that a bull market has begun until we're months into it. If you wait until the market is well into recovery to invest, you could waste valuable time.
For instance, say you had invested in an S&P 500 index fund in January 2009, just before the market officially bottomed out. At the time, it might have seemed like a terrible idea, since prices were still volatile throughout the following months. But by the end of the year, you would have earned returns of more than 23%.

^SPX data by YCharts.
Instead of investing in January, however, say you waited until August, when the market was already well into the recovery. While that might have seemed safer, you would have only seen returns of around 13% by the end of the year.
The market could face more volatility in the near term, but that doesn't mean now is a bad time to invest. By choosing quality stocks and holding for the long haul, you're far more likely to make money in the stock market.
10 stocks we like better than WalmartWhen our award-winning analyst team has an investing tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Walmart wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Katie Brockman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.