March 15, 2023 — 06:22 am EDT

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Dividend stocks can obviously bring income to your portfolio, but there's so much more to the story. They can also generate strong total returns over time with generally lower volatility than their non-dividend counterparts. In this video, Certified Financial Planner® Matt Frankel discusses his five favorite dividend ETFs to buy right now. 
*Stock prices used were the midday prices of March 13, 2023. The video was published on March 13, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Vanguard Specialized Funds-Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETFWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Vanguard Specialized Funds-Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Matthew Frankel, CFP® has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Vanguard Specialized Funds-Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF and Vanguard Whitehall Funds-Vanguard High Dividend Yield ETF. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Matthew Frankel is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.