March 15, 2023 — 06:09 am EDT

      Written by
                        Trevor Jennewine for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


More than 66 million Americans received Social Security benefits in January, and many of them depend on that income to make ends meet. But experts believe the program is facing a funding deficit of $20.4 trillion between 2022 and 2096, from pressures created by the aging population and historically low birth rates. Put simply, the number of workers paying taxes into the Social Security program is shrinking in relation to the number of beneficiaries, and that problem is chewing away at the trust fund.
Last year, the trust fund balance dropped $22 billion to $2.8 trillion, as cash inflows from payroll taxes and interest failed to offset cash outflows. In the absence of change, Social Security will continue to run a deficit each year through 2035, at which point the Board of Trustees believes the trust fund balance will reach zero. If that happens, interest income will disappear, and revenue from payroll taxes would cover just 80% of scheduled benefits in 2035, declining to 74% by 2096.
Here are two ways lawmakers could keep the trust fund solvent. Unfortunately, neither solution will keep everyone happy.
Image source: Getty Images.
In broad strokes, there are two ways to eliminate the $20.4 trillion deficit: Increase revenue or reduce spending. One way to increase revenue would be to raise the Social Security payroll tax rate. Under current law, employees contribute 6.2% of their wages, and their employers match that sum for a total of 12.4%. But bumping the tax rate to 15.64% in January 2022 would have kept the trust fund solvent through 2096, according to the Board of Trustees.
Of course, the trustees are not suggesting time travel, but merely expressing the magnitude of the problem. If the payroll tax rate had been 3.24 percentage points higher last year -- meaning employees and their employers would have contributed an additional 1.62% in taxes -- the long-term deficit would have been erased. Unfortunately, the longer Congress waits to make changes, the larger those changes will need to be. If lawmakers delay until 2035, the trustees estimate a 4.07% increase in the payroll tax rate will be necessary.
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has a more pessimistic outlook. The CBO believes the Social Security trust fund will be depleted by 2033, two years earlier than the trustees have forecast, and that the payroll tax rate would need to rise 4.9% to 17.3% to maintain solvency through 2096. That means employees and their employers would both pay an extra 2.45% in taxes.
Congress could also overcome the deficit by reducing Social Security benefits. The cut could be applied evenly across all current and future beneficiaries, or it could be targeted at a specific cohort. For instance, most Americans support reducing benefits paid to high earners (i.e., those with income in the top 20%), according to research from the University of Maryland. But that change alone would not solve the problem.
The Board of Trustees says all benefits needed to be cut by 20.3% in January 2022 to keep the trust fund solvent through 2096. That figure is larger now. And if lawmakers delay until 2035, a benefit reduction of 24.9% would be necessary. However, the CBO once again has a more pessimistic outlook. It estimates that an immediate and permanent benefit cut of 26% would be required to offset the long-term deficit.
To recap, the Social Security program must either increase revenue or decrease spending (or both) to avoid trust fund depletion. Raising the payroll tax rate and cutting benefits are just two ways to achieve those ends, but they are by no means the only answers. Many politicians have already proposed changes to Congress, and most of that legislation attempts to solve the problem with a combination of revenue-boosting and benefit-cutting measures. In other words, workers and beneficiaries are likely to shoulder the burden together.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.