March 17, 2023 — 04:58 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Montauk Renewables (NASDAQ: MNTK) fell as much as 22.5% in trading on Friday after the renewable energy company reported 2022 financial results. Shares closed the day down 14.3%. 
In the fourth quarter, revenue was $49.6 million, up 9.7% from a year ago but falling well short of the $61.8 million that analysts expected. Earnings of $0.05 per share were also $0.04 behind estimates. 
For the full year, revenue rose 39% to $205.6 million and net income jumped nearly 900% to $35.2 million. For the year, production of renewable natural gas (RNG) fell 2.9% from a year ago. 
In 2023, management expects RNG revenue to be between $137 million and $145 million on a slight production increase. Renewable electricity revenue is expected to be $18 million to $19 million. 
The implication from guidance is that revenue is slowing down and earnings might do the same next year. Natural gas prices have been falling and interest rates have been rising, which puts pressure on Montauk Renewables' business over time. And it doesn't look like either of those trends are going to change. 
I think a wait-and-see approach is the best move here. Alternative sources of energy are growing and will be valuable over time, but there are plenty of companies that have disappointed investors as market pressure comes to bear. Montauk Renewables seems to be facing some of those headwinds now. 
10 stocks we like better than Montauk RenewablesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Montauk Renewables wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.