March 14, 2023 — 01:00 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Sejuti Banerjea for                             
        




Zacks ->


About the Industry
This industry includes mostly semiconductor chip manufacturers like Intel Corporation (INTC).
Major Themes for the Industry
Zacks Industry Rank Indicates Relatively Strong Prospects
The Zacks Semiconductor – Analog and Mixed industry is housed within the broader Zacks Computer and Technology sector. It carries a Zacks Industry Rank #57, which places it in the top 23% of the 250 odd Zacks-classified industries.
The group’s Zacks Industry Rank, which is basically the average of the Zacks Rank of all the member stocks, indicates relatively strong near-term prospects. Our research shows that the top 50% of the Zacks-ranked industries outperforms the bottom 50% by a factor of more than 2 to 1.
The industry’s positioning in the top 50% of Zacks-ranked industries is based on the earnings outlook for the constituent companies in aggregate. Looking at the aggregate earnings estimate revisions over the past year, it appears that analyst opinion about the 2023 outlook has improved while that for 2024 has weakened slightly: 2023 estimates have risen 5.9% over the past year, while 2024 estimates have dropped 3.7%.
Before we present a few stocks that you may want to consider for your portfolio, let’s take a look at the industry’s recent stock-market performance and valuation picture.
Stock Market Performance Is Attractive
The Semiconductor – Analog and Mixed industry has traded at a premium to the S&P 500 through most of the past year and starting from November it has pulled way ahead as the S&P essentially flatlined. The broader Zacks Computer and Technology Sector has trailed the S&P 500 since April.
Overall, the industry gained 13.1% over the past year while the broader sector lost 14.1% and the S&P 500 lost 11.0%.
One-Year Price Performance
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research
Industry's Current Valuation
On the basis of forward 12-month price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, the industry is trading at a 17.12X multiple, which is a discount to both the S&P 500’s 17.33X and the broader computer and technology sector’s 21.22X. At the current level, it is however trading at a premium to its median level of 16.70X over the past year.
The industry has traded between a 13.80X and 18.74X multiple over the past year.
Forward 12 Month Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratio
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research
3 Stocks to Hold for the Long-Term
Analog Devices, Inc. (ADI): Analog Devices is an original equipment manufacturer of semiconductor devices, specifically, analog, mixed signal and digital signal processing (DSP) integrated circuits for industrial, consumer, communications and automotive customers. Other than manufacturing at its facilities in the U.S., Ireland and Southeast Asia, it also outsources some production to outside foundries, mainly Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company for front-end processing and third-party subcontractors for back-end operations.
Analog Devices’ strength in the more resilient industrial (over 50% revenue share) and automotive markets is proving to be helpful in the difficult operating climate we are seeing today. Demand in these markets, particularly for automation and electrification are currently driving its business. These along with pervasive sensing, AI-driven edge computing and ubiquitous connectivity that are enabling new capabilities, applications and markets at the Intelligent Edge are secular drivers.
As far as operations are concerned, the company has been growing its output both internally and at its foundry partners, which has allowed it to lower lead times. However, it still has a significant backlog, which would translate into a year’s revenue at the current level.
Shipments are expected to increase through the year, bringing the backlog back to normal levels. The company recently raised its quarterly dividend by 13%, making it the fifth consecutive double-digit increase, and the 19th straight year of dividend increase.
The company beat January quarter estimates by 6.2% and in the last 30 days, the 2023 estimates for this Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) company dropped a couple of cents The 2024 estimate increased by 90 cents (9.0%).
The shares are up 25.3% over the past year.
Price and Consensus: ADI
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research

Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP): Microchip Technology Incorporated operates in the Americas, Europe and Asia. It develops, manufactures and sells smart, connected and secure embedded control solutions such as general purpose 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontrollers; 32-bit embedded microprocessors; and specialized microcontrollers for automotive, industrial, computing, communications, lighting, power supplies, motor control, human machine interface, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity applications.
Microchip’s demand far outpaces its ability to supply. It is a good thing that more than 50% of its backlog is non-cancellable under its Preferred Supply Program (PSP). Other than the fact that it greatly improves visibility, it also helps in the current environment where supply constraints are only now beginning to ease up.
Management is currently focused on bringing down its backlog while maintaining the quality of new orders. As supply continues to improve and lead times come down, profitability will also improve. However, China’s imposing and then suddenly raising its lockdown has resulted in inventory gluts that are an overhang on Microchip’s business.
Investors would be interested to know that its strong cash flows have enabled the company to pay down a substantial portion of its debt over the last few years and also pay a consistent dividend. The company recently announced a 41.5% increase in the quarterly dividend. Therefore management continues to return value to shareholders. 
Microchip beat estimates by 0.7% in the last quarter. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for 2023 has increased 7 cents (1.2%) in the last 60 days. The 2024 estimate increased 35 cents (6.0%) during the same period.
#2 ranked Microchip’s shares are up 19.3% over the past year.
Price and Consensus: MCHP
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research

Silicon Laboratories Inc. (SLAB): Silicon Laboratories is a fabless semiconductor company offering wireless microcontrollers and sensor products primarily in the U.S., China and Taiwan. Its products are used in various Internet of Things (IoT) applications, including connected home and security, industrial automation and control, smart metering, smart lighting, commercial building automation, consumer electronics, asset tracking and medical instrumentation.
Silicon Laboratories is seeing solid momentum in its business, which has allowed it to double its organic revenue in two years  and increase its design wins by 120%. Management continues to see significant opportunity and expects the design win momentum to continue, further building its leadership position in IoT, despite the macroeconomic uncertainties.
Silicon Laboratories topped the Zacks Consensus earnings estimate by 35.1% in the last quarter. Its 2023 EPS estimate has jumped a dollar (25.3%) in the last 60 days while the 2024 estimate increased 49 cents (9.0%).
Shares of this Zacks Rank #2 stock are up 26.2% over the past year.
Price and Consensus: SLAB
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research


Free Report: Must-See Hydrogen Stocks

	Hydrogen fuel cells are already used to provide efficient, ultra-clean energy to buses, ships and even hospitals. This technology is on the verge of a massive breakthrough, one that could make hydrogen a major source of America's power. It could even totally revolutionize the EV industry.

	Zacks has released a special report revealing the 4 stocks experts believe will deliver the biggest gains.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Analog Devices, Inc. (ADI) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Microchip Technology Incorporated (MCHP) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Silicon Laboratories, Inc. (SLAB) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.