March 14, 2023 — 10:30 am EDT

      Written by
                        Neil Rozenbaum for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In this video, I will talk about the aftereffects of the SVB Financial collapse on small and big tech companies such as Alphabet (NASDAQ: GOOGL) (NASDAQ: GOOG), Shopify, and Twilio and how this event might become an opportunity for investors.
*Stock prices used were from the trading day of March 13, 2023. The video was published on March 14, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than AlphabetWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Alphabet wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Neil Rozenbaum has positions in Amazon.com and Shopify. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Amazon.com, Microsoft, Roku, SVB Financial, Shopify, and Twilio. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Neil is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.