March 14, 2023 — 09:47 am EDT

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Amazon's (NASDAQ: AMZN) stock price is near levels seen in the summer of 2018, even though in the past four and half years, the tech giant has continued to grow its e-commerce, clouding, subscription services, and advertisement segments. Check out the short video to learn more, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of March 13, 2023. The video was published on March 13, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Amazon.comWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Amazon.com wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Jose Najarro has positions in Advanced Micro Devices, Alphabet, and Unity Software. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Advanced Micro Devices, Alphabet, Amazon.com, and Unity Software. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.