March 14, 2023 — 08:00 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Book/Market Investor model based on the published strategy of Joseph Piotroski. This value-quant strategy screens for high book-to-market stocks, and then separates out financially sound firms by looking at a host of improving financial criteria.
SHINHAN FINANCIAL GROUP CO LTD (ADR) (SHG) is a large-cap value stock in the Money Center Banks industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 50% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Shinhan Financial Group Co Ltd is a Korea-based company principally engaged in the bank business. The Company operates its business through five segments. The Bank segment offers commercial bank services. The Credit Card segment provides credit card services. The Financial Investment segment involves in the trading and consignment trading of securities. The Life Insurance segment is engaged in the life insurance business. The Other segment is involved in the asset management, facilities rental and rental business, savings banks, financial information technology (IT) services, fund general office management, debts collection and credit investigation, private equities investment, real estate investment and operation.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of SHINHAN FINANCIAL GROUP CO LTD (ADR)
SHG Guru Analysis
SHG Fundamental Analysis
OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING GROUP INC. (OSG) is a small-cap value stock in the Water Transportation industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 0% to 100% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. (OSG) is a provider of energy transportation services. The Company and its subsidiary, Alaska Tanker Company (ATC), owns and operates a fleet of oceangoing vessels engaged in the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States Flag trade. OSG primarily charters its vessels to customers for voyages for specific periods of time at fixed daily amounts through time charters. The Company also charters its vessels for specific voyages at spot rates. The Company has an active vessel fleet of approximately 22 United States Flag vessels, which consists of three crude oil tankers doing business in Alaska, two conventional articulated tug barges (ATBs), two lightering ATBs, three shuttle tankers, 10 medium range (MR) tankers, and two non-Jones Act MR tankers that participate in the U.S. Maritime Security Program. It also owns and operates one Marshall Islands-flagged MR tanker, which trades internationally.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING GROUP INC.
OSG Guru Analysis
OSG Fundamental Analysis
LANDSEA HOMES CORP (LSEA) is a small-cap value stock in the Construction Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 50% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Landsea Homes Corporation is a residential homebuilder company. It is engaged in designing, constructing, marketing and sale of suburban and urban single-family detached and attached homes in California, Arizona, Florida, Texas, and Metro New York. It offers a range of housing options. The Arizona market consists of entry-level, single-family homes in Avondale, Buckeye, Chandler, Goodyear, Mesa, Phoenix, Queen Creek, Surprise, and Tolleson. The California market consists of single-family detached and attached homes in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Joaquin, and Santa Clara counties in Northern California and Los Angeles, Orange, and San Bernardino counties in Southern California. The Florida market consists of entry-level single-family homes and attached homes in metro Orlando and Palm Bay in Florida. The New York Metro market consists of two condominium projects: Chelsea neighborhood in New York City, New York and Port Imperial in Weehawken, New Jersey along the gold cost.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of LANDSEA HOMES CORP
LSEA Guru Analysis
LSEA Fundamental Analysis
WOORI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (ADR) (WF) is a mid-cap value stock in the Money Center Banks industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 30% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Woori Financial Group Inc. is a financial holding company. The Company's main subsidiary companies include Woori Bank, WOORI FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Finance Research Institute, woori credit Information co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Company, Ltd and WOORI FUND SERVICE LIMITED., among others. Woori Bank provides deposits, loans, funds, foreign exchange transactions, payment guarantees, securities investment, trust investment, and credit card services. WOORI FIS Co., Ltd. provides computer system installation and development, software development, telecommunication equipment supply and maintenance services. Woori Finance Research Institute conducts research activities on management strategies and the financial industry. woori credit Information co., Ltd. is engaged in credit investigation and collection of bonds. WOORI FUND SERVICE LIMITED. is engaged in private equity investment.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of WOORI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (ADR)
WF Guru Analysis
WF Fundamental Analysis
GLOBAL SHIP LEASE INC (GSL) is a small-cap value stock in the Water Transportation industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 70% to 100% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Global Ship Lease, Inc. is engaged in owning and chartering out containerships to liner companies. The Company owns a fleet of mid-sized and smaller containerships, which it charters out under fixed-rate charters to container shipping companies. It focuses on mid-size Post-Panamax and smaller containerships. The Company's fleet consists of approximately 65 mid-sized and smaller containerships, ranging from 1,118 to 11,040 twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEU), with an aggregate capacity of 342,348 TEU. Its 32 ships are wide beam Post-Panamax. The mix of ship sizes within its fleet deploys its vessels on a range of trading routes. The Company's subsidiaries include GSL Rome LLC, Poseidon Containers Holdings LLC, K&T Marine LLC, GSL Legacy Holding LLC, Knausen Holding LLC, Global Ship Lease Investments, Inc., GSL Holdings, Inc., and Global Ship Lease 53 LLC, among others.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of GLOBAL SHIP LEASE INC
GSL Guru Analysis
GSL Fundamental Analysis
SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC (SUP) is a small-cap growth stock in the Auto & Truck Parts industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 0% to 90% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Superior Industries International, Inc. is engaged in designing and manufacturing of aluminum wheels for sale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). The Company supplies aluminum wheels to automobile and light truck manufacturers, with manufacturing operations in Mexico, Germany and Poland. It operates through two segments: North America and Europe. It offers a range aluminum wheels with finishes, which includes Bright Machined, Polished Face with Painted Window, Fully Painted, Premium Paint, Polished, Chrome Clad and Mirror Finish Ultra Bright Machining. Its OEM aluminum wheels are primarily sold for factory installation on vehicle models. The Company sells aluminum wheels to the European aftermarket under the brands ATS, RIAL, ALUTEC and ANZIO.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC
SUP Guru Analysis
SUP Fundamental Analysis
Joseph Piotroski Portfolio
About Joseph Piotroski:  Piotroski isn't your typical Wall Street big shot. In fact, he's not even a professional investor. He's a good old numbers-crunching accountant and college professor. But in 2000, shortly after he started teaching at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Piotroski published a groundbreaking paper in the Journal of Accounting Research entitled "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers". In it, Piotroski laid out an accounting-based stock-selection/shorting method that produced a 23 percent average annual back-tested return from 1976 through 1996 -- more than double the S&P 500's gain during that time. Piotroski's findings were reported in major financial publiations like SmartMoney. Today, he teaches accounting at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.