March 14, 2023 — 06:17 am EDT

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


It's generally not a good idea to try to short-term trade or time the market, but it can be a good strategy to invest for the long term during turbulent times. With lots of volatility in the banking industry, here are three excellent ETFs that could be opportunistic additions to your portfolio.
*Stock prices used were the midday prices as of March 13, 2023. The video was published on March 14, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Select Sector Spdr Trust-The Financial Select Sector Spdr FundWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Select Sector Spdr Trust-The Financial Select Sector Spdr Fund wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Wells Fargo is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Matthew Frankel, CFP® has positions in Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway, and Wells Fargo. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway, JPMorgan Chase, and S&P Global. The Motley Fool recommends Regions Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Matthew Frankel is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.