March 14, 2023 — 06:06 am EDT

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


As you enter into your later years, you must make an important choice about when to claim Social Security benefits. You have the option to start checks as early as age 62, as late as age 70, or at any time in between. But, before you make that decision, there's a simple calculation you absolutely must do to make sure your choice is the right one.
Here's what it is. 
Image source: Getty Images.
If you want to make sure you're maximizing lifetime Social Security earnings, you must calculate your "break-even" point before you start your first check. What is your break-even point? It's the point at which a delayed claim for benefits will end up not costing you money, or even paying off for you. 
See, you have the option to claim your first Social Security payment at any time once you turn 62. But every month you wait past 62 will increase the amount of your monthly benefit until you reach the age of 70. It may make sense for you to wait to claim in order to get higher future benefits -- but, of course, the downside is that each month of delay is a check you've given up.
Delaying pays off for you only if you get so many higher checks in the future that you break even for the income you missed by giving up checks -- and then continue to get more payments after that point. Your "break-even" point is the point at which you have received enough higher checks to cover all foregone income. Every extra payment from there on out is a bonus that adds more to your lifetime income than you'd have otherwise had. 
Calculating your break-even point is pretty simple. You will need to do the following:
You can figure out what your Social Security benefit will be at different ages by signing into your mySocialSecurity account. You can also do this calculation manually by determining your standard benefit and applying early filing penalties or delayed retirement credits to it.
Your standard benefit is the amount you'd get if you claimed at exactly full retirement age. Early filing penalties reduce it by 5/9 of 1% per month for the first 36 months and by 5/12 of 1% for any month you get a check prior to that. Delayed retirement credits increase it by 2/3 of 1% per month of delay until you reach 70. 
If your standard benefit is $1,500 and your full retirement age is 67, here's what this calculation would look like:
After you've calculated your break-even point, you can make a more informed guess whether you're likely to live long enough to hit it based on your personal and family health history. If you think you'll die before you break even, a delayed Social Security benefits claim may not be the best choice for you. 
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.




 
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.