March 14, 2023 — 05:31 am EDT

      Written by
                        Sam Swenson for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Investing in a bear market can be unsettling to say the least, but the reality is that those who commit to staying their course during times of market volatility are those likely to come out ahead (way ahead) in retirement. Saving for retirement is a long-term game, and your investment process should follow that same philosophy. 
Here are four ways to save for retirement, even in a bear market. 
This can be for a 401(k), IRA, or taxable brokerage account, but the important thing here is that you do it. Setting up automatic account contributions takes all emotion out of investing -- a necessary factor to achieve long-term investment success. The absolute worst thing you could be doing is looking at a falling stock market every day and, shortly thereafter, refusing to add any more money until "things get better." When that happens, it's likely the market will have been on its way to recovery for some time. 
Automatic contributions also ensure that you keep investing when markets turn south. Despite a sustained bear market in 2022, those who continued contributions throughout the year saw the S&P 500 rise from around 3,500 to over 4,000 by January 2023. Even though we're still in the same bear market, continuous contributors have already started to come out ahead.
Image source: Getty Images.
Just because one area of the globe is in a bear market doesn't mean that all areas are. This underscores the importance to invest in a global portfolio of stocks and bonds, and not just a few hand-picked stocks or other securities. Single stocks and bonds carry unsystematic risk, or risk that can't be diversified away; broad stock market mutual funds that cover large swaths of the globe tend to be far less risky on the whole. 
At the same time, different markets around the world tend to recover at different rates -- and we don't know exactly how or when any single market will recover. Rather than trying to pinpoint the bottom as an entry point to one particular market, it's sensible to continuously hold well-established index funds with many different companies in various parts of the world. As a result, in a bear market you're more likely to experience only a moderate decline relative to a catastrophic one, which can be motivating to continue your saving journey. 
Simple index funds like the Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund and the Vanguard All-World ex-US Stock Market Index Fund are smart choices for hands-off investors. 
When the market is falling, it's hard to feel optimistic about investing for retirement. To quell any anxiety, focus on the factors within your control: 
Maintaining optimism is important. But it's even more important that you take action to ensure you're receiving every advantage that you deserve.
Assuming you have decades to invest, saving for retirement should be a low-effort and low-stress activity. You can start by setting up automatic contributions to your employer's retirement account, like a 401(k) or Roth IRA, and by making sure you are receiving any 401(k) company match at work. From there, be sure to avoid speculating on single stocks in your retirement accounts and stick with low-cost, globally diversified index funds. Finally, try to grow a mindset of controlling the variables you can control, and let the rest be what it is -- background noise. 
10 stocks we like better than Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fd Admiral ShsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fd Admiral Shs wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Sam Swenson has positions in Vanguard Index Funds-Vanguard Total Stock Market ETF and Vanguard International Equity Index Funds-Vanguard Ftse All-World ex-US ETF. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Vanguard Index Funds-Vanguard Total Stock Market ETF. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.