March 13, 2023 — 08:00 pm EDT

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
Not a single US bank failed on Monday, but you would have been forgiven thinking otherwise if you just looked at the thumping bank stocks took.
After the fall of both Signature Bank and Silicon Valley Bank this past weekend, shares in US lenders sold off dramatically to start the week as panicky investors feared panicky customers would remove their money from increasingly panicky small and regional lenders.
On Sunday, the Federal Reserve announced a $25 billion emergency loan program for banks to try and stop further runs. It appeared to do the trick as far as customers pulling deposits, but didn't exactly create a deeper sense of relief in the US banking system. In fact, the rescue seemed to ramp up the confusion and nail-biting as Wall Street bet that customers would take their deposits to megabanks JP Morgan and Wells Fargo. If that were to happen, lending throughout the system could freeze up and banking services would become more expensive for the majority of US households as fees increase.
Investors trying to get ahead of the SVB contagion weren't waiting around to find out. Lenders like First Republic Bank, Western Alliance, PacWest, and Zions all saw their stocks plummet, with the market punishing them for their outsized reliance on deposit accounts above the $250,000 FDIC insurance threshold. Before its collapse, SVB had the highest such rate, almost a third higher than First Republic's, which saw its stock close down almost 62% on Monday.
SVB's aftershocks could be felt all over:
President Joe Biden tried to assure everyone things will be fine. "Look, the bottom line is this: Americans can rest assured that our banking system is safe. Your deposits are safe," he said in a brief speech Monday morning.
Not Dead Yet: It might not be RIP for SVB. According to reports Monday afternoon, US regulators have not abandoned hope of selling what's left of tech's favorite bank even though they couldn't find a taker over the weekend. CNBC reported that superregional PNC Bank kicked the tires on SVB but came away less interested after doing so. But it's nice to know the FDIC is staying positive.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.