March 13, 2023 — 06:59 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (NYSE: TSM), the ever-influential Asian chipmaker, started the week off positively, at least as far as its stock was concerned. On the back of a researcher's price target hike, the company's share price also went mildly north to close the day 0.6% higher. By contrast, the S&P 500 index eased down by about 0.2%.
The lifter in question was Susquehanna International Group analyst Mehdi Hosseini, who before the market opened raised his price target on Taiwan Semiconductor to $76 per share from his previous $72. As this new level remains somewhat below the current share price, Hosseini maintained his neutral rating on the stock. 
The reasoning behind his target price bump wasn't immediately apparent, but it is in line with the way general investor sentiment has developed of late. Several analysts have boosted their Taiwan Semiconductor price targets, among them the forecasters from such noteworthy institutions as Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.
One thing that influenced these improving sentiments was the chipmaker's fourth-quarter and full-year 2022 report, which it published in mid-January. Although the results weren't necessarily spectacular, Taiwan Semiconductor did beat the analysts' consensus earnings estimate.
What's likely a stronger factor, however, is the sharp rise in interest in artificial intelligence applications. This is thanks to the surging prominence of ChatGPT, which produces texts and other outputs from user prompts.
Some analysts believe Taiwan Semiconductor could be quite the beneficiary of this trend. Artificial intelligence was specifically mentioned as a potential business driver in the most recent Bank of America note on the company authored by prognosticator Brad Lin. 
10 stocks we like better than Taiwan Semiconductor ManufacturingWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.