March 13, 2023 — 06:50 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


A new take on Eli Lilly (NYSE: LLY) stock by a prominent bank sent the pharmaceutical company's share price 3% higher on Monday. A Wells Fargo analyst upped his recommendation on the stock, and the market took that to heart. That 3% uptick was more than good enough to beat the nearly 0.2% slump of the bellwether S&P 500 index on the day. 
The prognosticator, Mohit Bansal, lifted his recommendation by one peg; he now thinks Lilly is worthy of an overweight ranking ("buy," in other words), up from his previous call of equal weight (or "hold"). Bansal also cranked his price target on the stock higher, to $375 per share from the preceding $360.
The analyst noted that the company is suffering from recent share-price weakness, which in his view is undeserved and has thus created an opportunity to grab the stock for cheap.
In his latest note on the storied pharmaceutical sector mainstay, Bansal wrote, "We think fundamentals of the company remain the same, and at current levels risk/reward into [the] donanemab Alzheimer's trial may be skewed to the upside."
Lilly has high hopes for donanemab, as Alzheimer's has proved to be a tough disease to fight and it is relatively widespread.
Lilly has been in the headlines lately, following its decision to cap the out-of-pocket price of insulin -- a long-standing product in its large portfolio -- at a very modest $35. Although the diabetes medication remains an important revenue source for the company, it isn't make or break. Last year, for example, it contributed roughly 11% to total sales.  
10 stocks we like better than Eli LillyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Eli Lilly wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Wells Fargo is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.