March 13, 2023 — 05:29 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) climbed on Monday, as investors' anticipation for the tech titan's entrance into the mixed-reality market heightened. By the close of the trading day, Apple's stock price was up 1.3% after rising as much as 3.1% earlier in the day.
Apple is preparing to launch its long-awaited augmented reality (AR) headset as early as June, according to the Financial Times. The device's debut would mark a major move by the tech giant into an AR market that's projected to approach $600 billion by the end of the decade, according to Grand View Research. 
Apple has reportedly been developing its mixed-reality headset for seven years. The initial version of the device is expected to feature advanced technology, including high-end cameras and ultra-high-resolution screens, that could drive its price as high as $3,000. Early sales are thus likely to be limited, although Apple is still reportedly planning to sell as many as 1 million headsets in the year following its launch. 
A successful new product launch would do more than just provide Apple with another driver of sales and profit growth. It would also boost investors' confidence that innovation is alive and well at the tech juggernaut.
Apple's new mixed-reality headset would be the first product that was created entirely under CEO Tim Cook's watch. Many of the company's other major product development efforts -- including the iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch -- were begun during former CEO Steve Jobs' tenure. 
10 stocks we like better than AppleWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Apple wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.