March 13, 2023 — 05:27 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Container logistics specialist Zim Integrated Shipping Services (NYSE: ZIM) delivered a big chunk of good news on Monday. The company unveiled its latest set of quarterly results, and the encouraging numbers led investors to trade the stock almost 7% higher on the day. By contrast, the S&P 500 index sank marginally.
For its fourth quarter of 2022, Zim's revenue amounted to $2.19 billion, which represented a fairly steep decline of 37% on a year-over-year basis.
On the bright side, this was well above the average $1.92 billion expected by analysts. What's more, zooming out to the full year gives us a top-line figure of $12.56 billion -- an increase of 17% over the 2021 result. 
Similar dynamics were also seen on the bottom line. For the quarter, net income declined to $417 million ($3.44 per share) from the year-ago period's $1.71 billion. Prognosticators tracking the shipping company were expecting much less -- collectively $2.50, to be exact. 
Citing a market that remains attractive despite macroeconomic challenges, Zim CEO Eli Glickman sounded an optimistic note about the company's future: "Over the past two years we have taken important steps amid a highly lucrative market to best position Zim to execute in a more normalized trading environment."
"Specifically, we enhanced our vessel sourcing strategy to secure attractive newbuild capacity and improve our cost structure," he added. "We have also diversified our commercial presence to ensure Zim is optimizing its performance to create long-term sustainable shareholder value."
That "more normalized trading environment" will affect the fundamentals, however. Zim's full-year 2023 guidance is calling for non-GAAP (adjusted) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion. That would be well down from the more than $7.5 billion of 2022.
10 stocks we like better than Zim Integrated Shipping ServicesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Zim Integrated Shipping Services wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Zim Integrated Shipping Services. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.