March 13, 2023 — 02:33 pm EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In afternoon trading on Monday, Utilities stocks are the best performing sector, higher by 2.4%.  Within that group, WEC Energy Group Inc (Symbol: WEC) and Xcel Energy Inc (Symbol: XEL) are two of the day's stand-outs, showing a gain of 4.6% and 3.8%, respectively.  Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLU), which is up 2.4% on the day, and down 6.40% year-to-date.  WEC Energy Group Inc, meanwhile, is down 1.92% year-to-date, and Xcel Energy Inc, is down 6.34% year-to-date.  Combined, WEC and XEL make up approximately 6.7% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


The next best performing sector is the Healthcare sector, higher by 1.4%.  Among large Healthcare stocks, Illumina Inc (Symbol: ILMN) and Moderna Inc (Symbol: MRNA) are the most notable, showing a gain of 19.5% and 7.3%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Healthcare stocks is the Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLV), which is up 1.5% in midday trading, and down 6.95% on a year-to-date basis.  Illumina Inc, meanwhile, is up 15.40% year-to-date, and Moderna Inc, is down 17.06% year-to-date.  Combined, ILMN and MRNA make up approximately 1.7% of the underlying holdings of XLV.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Monday.  As you can see, five sectors are up on the day, while four sectors are down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.