March 13, 2023 — 01:43 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Danny Vena for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of CrowdStrike (NASDAQ: CRWD) were trading higher on Monday. The cloud-based cybersecurity specialist jumped as much as 3.2% in early trading and were still up 2.3% as of 12:53 p.m. ET.
Investors were relieved to get clarity about the company's banking relationships, which were in focus as the week began.
The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), a subsidiary of SVB Financial Group, has had investors running for cover and reviewing regulatory filings to see which technology companies might be exposed. A quick perusal of CrowdStrike's annual report reveals a banking relationship with SVB, but things weren't as bad as investors had feared.
Citi analyst Fatima Boolani scoured a number of North American software providers for exposure to SVB after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) takeover of SVB last week. The analyst noted that SVB was the "lender of choice for most of the high-tech and enterprise software" companies. 
The research revealed that CrowdStrike indicated that 10% of its funds were exposed, but the analyst suggested the exposure "doesn't seem all that concerning," as it largely involves the company's revolving credit line.
The news got even better for CrowdStrike shareholders. Over the weekend, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell, and FDIC Chair Martin Gruenberg released a joint statement saying the FDIC would "fully protect all depositors" of SVB, invoking a "systemic risk exception." This means that both insured and uninsured deposits will be guaranteed by government regulators. 
While investors welcomed this news, there are plenty of other reasons to like CrowdStrike. Just last week, the company reported its financial results, which were remarkably robust -- particularly given the macroeconomic headwinds.
For CrowdStrike's fiscal 2023 fourth quarter (which ended Jan. 31), revenue grew 48% year over year to $637 million. CrowdStrike also generated net new annual recurring revenue of $222 million, bringing the total to $2.56 billion, up 48%. While its losses continued, the company generated record operating cash flow and record free cash flow of $273 million and $209 million, respectively, which suggests profits are merely a matter of time. 
For those reasons and more, CrowdStrike stock is a buy.
Find out why CrowdStrike is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. CrowdStrike is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Citigroup is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Danny Vena has positions in CrowdStrike. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends CrowdStrike and SVB Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.