March 13, 2023 — 11:36 am EDT

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


The DividendRank formula at Dividend Channel ranks a coverage universe of thousands of dividend stocks, according to a proprietary formula designed to identify those stocks that combine two important characteristics — strong fundamentals and a valuation that looks inexpensive.  Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc (Symbol: APAM) presently has an above average rank, in the top 50% of the coverage universe, which suggests it is among the top most "interesting" ideas that merit further research by investors.



But making Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc an even more interesting and timely stock to look at, is the fact that in trading on Monday, shares of APAM entered into oversold territory, changing hands as low as $28.98 per share.  We define oversold territory using the Relative Strength Index, or RSI, which is a technical analysis indicator used to measure momentum on a scale of zero to 100.  A stock is considered to be oversold if the RSI reading falls below 30.  

In the case of Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc, the RSI reading has hit 28.3 — by comparison, the universe of dividend stocks covered by Dividend Channel currently has an average RSI of 34.7.  A falling stock price — all else being equal — creates a better opportunity for dividend investors to capture a higher yield.  Indeed, APAM's recent annualized dividend of 2.2/share (currently paid in quarterly installments) works out to an annual yield of 7.30% based upon the recent $30.15 share price.



A bullish investor could look at APAM's 28.3 RSI reading today as a sign that the recent heavy selling is in the process of exhausting itself, and begin to look for entry point opportunities on the buy side.  Among the fundamental datapoints dividend investors should investigate to decide if they are bullish on APAM is its dividend history.  

In general, dividends are not always predictable; but, looking at the history chart below can help in judging whether the most recent dividend is likely to continue.

















Click here to find out what 9 other oversold dividend stocks you need to know about »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.