March 13, 2023 — 08:00 am EDT

      Written by
                        Katie Brockman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Retirement is an exciting milestone in life, but tax surprises could throw a wrench in your plans.
Whether you've already retired or are still in the preparation stage, it's important to understand how taxes can affect your income. Most retirees will be subject to income taxes to some degree in retirement, and there are three specific types of taxes you'll need to be prepared for.
Social Security benefits are not immune to taxes, and depending on where you live, you may owe state income taxes on your monthly checks.
Image source: Getty Images.
Fortunately, there are 38 states that don't tax Social Security. The 12 that do tax benefits include Colorado, Connecticut, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, and West Virginia.
The good news, though, is that even among states that tax Social Security, most offer some sort of exemption. In Missouri, for example, benefits are exempt from taxes if your adjusted gross income is below $85,000 per year, or $100,000 per year for married couples filing jointly. And Nebraska is phasing out Social Security taxes, with all benefits exempt by 2025.
Regardless of where you live, it's wise to look into how your state taxes Social Security and whether you qualify for an exemption.
Social Security is also subject to federal income taxes, which are calculated based on a figure called your provisional income.
Your provisional income is your adjusted gross income plus half of your annual benefit amount and any nontaxable interest. So, for instance, if you were to withdraw $40,000 per year from your 401(k) and are collecting $20,000 per year from Social Security, your provisional income would be $50,000 per year.
Here's how much of your benefits are subject to federal taxes depending on your provisional income:
Data source: Social Security Administration
No matter how much you're earning, you won't pay federal taxes on more than 85% of your benefit amount. But the only way to avoid taxes on benefits is if your provisional income falls below $25,000 per year (or $32,000 per year for married couples).
Also, these income limits haven't been adjusted since 1984, when Social Security first became taxable. As the general cost of living continues to increase, you could end up paying more in federal taxes over time if these limits remain unchanged.
If you have any savings in a 401(k) or traditional IRA, you'll owe income taxes on the amount you withdraw in retirement. These accounts are tax-deferred, meaning you get a tax deduction up front when you make the contributions, then you'll owe taxes on the withdrawals.
It's especially important to consider taxes if you're retiring early. Withdraw money from a 401(k) or traditional IRA before age 59 1/2, and you'll not only be subject to taxes, but you may also owe an additional 10% penalty.
Roth accounts, such as a Roth 401(k) or Roth IRA, are generally free from taxes in retirement. However, if you've received a company match through a Roth 401(k), those contributions (as well as any earnings on them) will be subject to income taxes upon withdrawal.
You may not be able to entirely avoid taxes in retirement, but you can prepare for them. When you know what to expect, it will be easier to properly budget and enjoy your senior years more comfortably.
10 stocks we like better than WalmartWhen our award-winning analyst team has an investing tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Walmart wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.