March 13, 2023 — 06:23 am EDT

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, Billy Duberstein for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA) recently informed its investors that it could improve margins by reducing its usage of SiC chips, a semiconductor base material that runs on the pricey side. While the news created a minor blip in chip stock prices, Nick Rossolillo explains why the buying opportunity didn't last long. Check out the short video to learn what semiconductor investors Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, and Billy Duberstein had to say. Also, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of March 9, 2023. The video was published on March 10, 2023.

Find out why Tesla is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Tesla is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Billy Duberstein has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Jose Najarro has positions in Tesla. Nicholas Rossolillo has positions in Aehr Test Systems and Tesla. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Tesla and Wolfspeed. The Motley Fool recommends ON Semiconductor. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.