March 12, 2023 — 08:00 pm EDT

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
If you're going to run a creepy high-tech revenge campaign against a group of professionals, maybe don't start with lawyers.
Last summer, Madison Square Garden Sports infamously began banning lawyers with active cases against the company from all of its venues, and now the Big Apple staple could lose its liquor license, The New York Post reported Saturday.
Multiple attorneys have come forward saying they were barred from entering an MSG location -- like the mom who just wanted to take her daughter's girls scout troop to see the Radio City Christmas Spectacular or the Knicks fan who's had season tickets for 47 years and can now only go to away games.
Picking an opposing lawyer out of a crowd of thousands is not as simple as a game of "One of these things is not like the others," but the James Dolan-led company has something more powerful than hawk-eyed ticket takers – facial recognition software. And Dolan, who also owns Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theater, has been using the technology to evict his enemies, so now state agencies are coming down hard on all of his venues.
Now Dolan's puerile targeting of patrons is being treated as a civil liberties issue:
"This gangster-like governmental organization has finally run up against an entity that won't cower in the face of their outrageous abuses," Dolan told The Post.
Gimme a Beer: Despite the fact MSG charges $12 for a Bud, plenty of Ranger fans, concert-goers, and those full of Christmas spirit said they'd probably not come back if they couldn't get their drink on. "I would be 100% less likely to go," Mike Tabz, a 27-year-old finance professional from Manhattan told the NY Post. "If they take away their liquor license, they would be targeting regular people, why would they do that?" With the Knicks being the Knicks, drinking is compulsory.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.