March 12, 2023 — 11:00 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are the top rated Energy stocks according to Validea's Growth Investor model based on the published strategy of Martin Zweig. This strategy looks for growth stocks with persistent accelerating earnings and sales growth, reasonable valuations and low debt.
CACTUS INC (WHD) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 69% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Cactus, Inc. designs, manufactures, sells and rents a range of highly engineered wellhead and pressure control equipment. The Company's products are sold and rented principally for onshore unconventional oil and gas wells, and are utilized during the drilling, completion and production phases of its customers wells. In addition, it provides field services for all its products and rental items to assist with the installation, maintenance and handling of the wellhead and pressure control equipment. Its principal products include its Cactus SafeDrill wellhead systems as well as frac stacks, its Cactus SafeLink monobore, SafeClamp and SafeInject systems, zipper manifolds and production trees that it designs and manufactures. The Cactus SafeDrill wellhead systems employ technology which allows technicians to land and secure casing strings more safely from the rig floor, reducing the need to descend into the cellar. It operates service centers in the United States and Eastern Australia.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of CACTUS INC
WHD Guru Analysis
WHD Fundamental Analysis
ARCHROCK INC (AROC) is a small-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 66% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Archrock, Inc. is an energy infrastructure company with a primary focus on midstream natural gas compression. The Company is a provider of natural gas compression services to customers in the oil and natural gas industry throughout the United States, in terms of total compression fleet horsepower and a supplier of aftermarket services to customers that own compression equipment in the United States. It segments include Contract Operations, which is comprised of its owned fleet of natural gas compression equipment that it uses to provide operations services to its customers, and Aftermarket Services segment, which provides a full range of services to support the compression needs of its customers, which owns compression equipment, including operations, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services and sales of parts and components. The natural gas that it helps transport satisfies demand from electricity generation, heating and cooking and the industrial and manufacturing sectors.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of ARCHROCK INC
AROC Guru Analysis
AROC Fundamental Analysis
RANGER OIL CORP (ROCC) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 54% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Ranger Oil Corporation is an independent oil and gas company, which is engaged in the onshore development and production of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs) and natural gas. The Company's operations consist of drilling unconventional horizontal development wells and operating its producing wells in the Eagle Ford Shale (the Eagle Ford) in South Texas.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of RANGER OIL CORP
ROCC Guru Analysis
ROCC Fundamental Analysis
MPLX LP (MPLX) is a large-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 51% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: MPLX LP is a diversified master limited partnership (MLP) that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuels distribution services. The Company's segments include Logistics and Storage (L&S) and Gathering and Processing (G&P) segments. Its L&S segment primarily engages in the gathering, transportation, storage, and distribution of crude oil, refined products, and other hydrocarbon-based products. It also operates refining logistics, fuels distribution and inland marine businesses, terminals, rail facilities and storage caverns. Its assets consist of crude oil and refined product pipelines and associated storage assets, tank farm assets including rail and truck racks, an export terminal, and a fuels distribution business. The G&P segment primarily engages in the gathering, processing, and transportation of natural gas as well as the gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage, and marketing of natural gas liquids (NGLs).
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of MPLX LP
MPLX Guru Analysis
MPLX Fundamental Analysis
KIMBELL ROYALTY PARTNERS LP (KRP) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 46% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Kimbell Royalty Partners, LP is an oil and gas, mineral and royalty company. The Company owns and acquires mineral and royalty interests in oil and natural gas properties throughout the United States. Its portfolio includes over 16 million gross acres in 28 states and in every onshore basin in the continental United States, including ownership in more than 123,000 gross wells with over 47,000 wells in the Permian Basin. The Company's properties include Permian Basin, Eagle Ford, Bakken, Appalachian, Mid-Continent, Haynesville, and Rockies. Its Rockies property covers approximately 74,152 gross acres. Its Haynesville property covers approximately 1,428,907 gross acres. Its Mid-Continent property covers approximately 5,369,358 gross acres. Its Appalachian property covers approximately 741,353 gross acres.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of KIMBELL ROYALTY PARTNERS LP
KRP Guru Analysis
KRP Fundamental Analysis
VALARIS LTD (VAL) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 46% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Valaris Limited is an offshore contract drilling company. The Company is a provider of offshore contract drilling services to the international oil and gas industry with operations in the offshore market across six continents. The Company operates through four segments: Floaters, which includes its drill ships and semisubmersible rigs; Jackups; ARO, and Other, which consists of management services on rigs owned by third parties and the activities associated with its arrangements with ARO. It owns an offshore drilling rig fleet, including ultra-deep water fleets in the industry and a jack-up fleet. The Company owns approximately 52 rigs, including 11 drill ships, four semisubmersible rigs, one moored semisubmersible rig and 36 jack-up rigs. The Company's geographical locations include the United States Gulf of Mexico, United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Norway, Mexico and others.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of VALARIS LTD
VAL Guru Analysis
VAL Fundamental Analysis
NUSTAR ENERGY L.P. (NS) is a small-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 43% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: NuStar Energy L.P. is engaged in the transportation, terminalling and storage of petroleum products and renewable fuels and the transportation of anhydrous ammonia. It conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, NuStar Logistics, L.P. (NuStar Logistics) and NuStar Pipeline Operating Partnership L.P. (NuPOP). Its segments include pipeline, storage, and fuels marketing. The pipeline segment consists of the transportation of refined products, crude oil, and anhydrous ammonia. The storage segment is comprised of its facilities that provide storage, handling and other services for refined products, crude oil, specialty chemicals, renewable fuels, and other liquids. The fuels marketing segment includes its bunkering operations on the Gulf Coast, as well as certain of its blending operations associated with its Central East System. It has approximately 10,000 miles of pipelines and 64 terminal and storage facilities, which provide approximately 57 million barrels of storage capacity.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of NUSTAR ENERGY L.P.
NS Guru Analysis
NS Fundamental Analysis
WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL PLC (WFRD) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 43% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Weatherford International plc is a global energy services company. The Company provides equipment and services used in the drilling, evaluation, well construction, completion, production, intervention, and responsible abandonment of wells in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry as well as new energy platforms. The Company operates through three segments: Drilling and Evaluation (DRE), Well Construction and Completions (WCC), and Production and Intervention (PRI). DRE offers a suite of services including managed pressure drilling, drilling services, wireline, and drilling fluids. WCC offers products and services for well integrity assurance across the full life cycle of the well. It offers tubular running services, cementation products, completions, liner hangers and well services. PRI offers intervention services and drilling tools, artificial lift, digital solutions, sub-sea intervention and pressure pumping services.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL PLC
WFRD Guru Analysis
WFRD Fundamental Analysis
HELMERICH & PAYNE, INC. (HP) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 38% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Helmerich & Payne, Inc. provides drilling solutions and technologies for oil and gas exploration and production companies. The Company is engaged in the designing, fabrication and operation of drilling rigs in conventional and unconventional plays around the world. Its fleet includes approximately 236 land rigs in the United States, 28 international land rigs and seven offshore platform rigs. It operates through three segments. North America Solutions segment operations are primarily located in Texas and also operate in other states, depending on demand. Such states include Colorado, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming. Offshore Gulf of Mexico segment's operations are conducted in Louisiana and in United States federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico. International Solutions segment's operations have rigs and/or services primarily located in four international locations: Argentina, Bahrain, Colombia and United Arab Emirates.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of HELMERICH & PAYNE, INC.
HP Guru Analysis
HP Fundamental Analysis
PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. (PTEN) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Martin Zweig is 38% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. is an oilfield services company that primarily owns and operates land-based drilling rigs in the United States and a fleet of pressure pumping equipment. The Company operates through three business segments: Contract Drilling Services, Pressure Pumping Services and Directional Drilling Services. The Contract Drilling Services segment market its contract drilling services to independent oil and natural gas operators. Its Contract Drilling Services segment has marketed approximately 184 land-based drilling rigs in the continental United States and eight in Colombia. The Pressure Pumping Services segment provides pressure pumping services to oil and natural gas operators, primarily in Texas and the Appalachian region. It also provides cementing services through its pressure pumping segment. The Directional Drilling Services segment provides a range of directional drilling services in producing onshore oil and gas basins in the United States.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.
PTEN Guru Analysis
PTEN Fundamental Analysis
Martin Zweig Portfolio
About Martin Zweig: During the 15 years that it was monitored, Zweig's stock recommendation newsletter returned an average of 15.9 percent per year, during which time it was ranked number one based on risk-adjusted returns by Hulbert Financial Digest. Zweig has managed both mutual and hedge funds during his career, and he's put the fortune he's compiled to some interesting uses. He has owned what Forbes reported was the most expensive apartment in New York, a $70 million penthouse that sits atop Manhattan's Pierre Hotel, and he is a collector of all sorts of pop culture and historical memorabilia -- among his purchases are the gun used by Clint Eastwood in "Dirty Harry", a stock certificate signed by Commodore Vanderbilt, and even two old-fashioned gas pumps similar to those he'd seen at a nearby gas station while growing up in Cleveland, according to published reports. 
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.