March 12, 2023 — 11:00 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are the top rated Energy stocks according to Validea's Book/Market Investor model based on the published strategy of Joseph Piotroski. This value-quant strategy screens for high book-to-market stocks, and then separates out financially sound firms by looking at a host of improving financial criteria.
VITAL ENERGY INC (VTLE) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 100% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Vital Energy, Inc., formerly Laredo Petroleum, Inc., is an independent energy company. The Company is focused on the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties in the Permian Basin of West Texas. The Company covers approximately 163,000 net acres in the Permian Basin and has production of over 79,600 net barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per day.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of VITAL ENERGY INC
VTLE Guru Analysis
VTLE Fundamental Analysis
OIL STATES INTERNATIONAL, INC. (OIS) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 70% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Oil States International, Inc. is a provider of manufactured products and services to customers in the energy, industrial and military sectors. The Company's manufactured products include highly engineered capital equipment, as well as products consumed in the drilling, well construction and production of oil and natural gas. It operates through three segments. Offshore/Manufactured Products segment provides products and services to customers in the various offshore crude oil and natural gas producing regions of the world. Well Site Services segment includes a range of equipment and services that are used to drill for, establish and maintain the flow of oil and natural gas from a well throughout its life cycle. Downhole Technologies segment is comprised of the GEODynamics business and provides oil and gas perforation systems, downhole tools and services in support of completion, intervention, wireline and well abandonment operations.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of OIL STATES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
OIS Guru Analysis
OIS Fundamental Analysis
PRECISION DRILLING CORP (USA) (PDS) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 70% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Precision Drilling Corporation is a Canada-based company that provides contract drilling and completion and production services primarily to oil and natural gas and geothermal exploration and production companies in Canada, the United States and certain international locations. The Company operates through two segments: Contract Drilling Services and Completion and Production Services. Its Contract Drilling Services segment includes drilling rigs, procurement and distribution of oilfield supplies, and manufacture, sale and repair of drilling equipment. Its Completion and Production Services segment includes service rigs, oilfield equipment rental and camp and catering services. It offers Alpha suite of technologies, which utilizes integrating data insights, human ingenuity, automation consistency and smart algorithms to drill the wells every time. It also offers EverGreen a suite of environmental solutions, which include EverGreenMonitoring, EverGreenEnergy and EverGreenHydrogen.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of PRECISION DRILLING CORP (USA)
PDS Guru Analysis
PDS Fundamental Analysis
HELIX ENERGY SOLUTIONS GROUP INC (HLX) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 60% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc. is an offshore energy services company that provides specialty services to the offshore energy industry. The Company operates through four segments: Well Intervention, Robotics, Shallow Water Abandonment and Production Facilities. The Well Intervention segment provides services enabling its customers to access offshore wells for the purpose of performing production enhancement or decommissioning operations. The Robotics segment provides trenching, seabed clearance, offshore construction and inspection, repair, and maintenance (IRM) services to both the oil and gas and the renewable energy markets. The Shallow Water Abandonment segment provides offshore oilfield decommissioning and reclamation, project management, engineered solutions, intervention, and commercial diving services. The Production Facilities segment includes the Helix Producer I (the HP I), the Helix Fast Response System (the HFRS) and its ownership of oil and gas properties.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of HELIX ENERGY SOLUTIONS GROUP INC
HLX Guru Analysis
HLX Fundamental Analysis
EARTHSTONE ENERGY INC (ESTE) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Earthstone Energy, Inc. is an independent oil and gas company. The Company is engaged in the acquisition and development of oil and gas reserves through activities that include drilling and development of undeveloped leases, as well as asset and corporate acquisitions and mergers. The Company operates through the oil and natural gas exploration and production segment. Its operations are all in the upstream segment of the oil and natural gas industry and all its properties are onshore in the United States. Its primary assets are located in the Midland Basin in West Texas and the Delaware Basin in New Mexico. It has approximately 167,000 net acres in the Midland Basin that are highly contiguous on a project-by-project basis which allows the Company to drill multi-well pads. The Company has approximately 45,000 net acres in the Delaware Basin in New Mexico that are highly contiguous on a project-by-project basis which allows the Company to drill multi-well pads.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of EARTHSTONE ENERGY INC
ESTE Guru Analysis
ESTE Fundamental Analysis
DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING INC (DO) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. is an offshore drilling company. The Company is engaged in providing contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe. The Company has a fleet of approximately 15 offshore drilling rigs, consisting of 11 semisubmersibles and four dynamically positioned drill ships.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING INC
DO Guru Analysis
DO Fundamental Analysis
DRIL-QUIP INC (DRQ) is a small-cap growth stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Dril-Quip, Inc. designs, manufactures, sells and services engineered drilling and production equipment for both offshore and onshore applications. The Company operates through three segments: Western Hemisphere, Eastern Hemisphere and Asia-Pacific. The Company's principal products consist of subsea and surface wellheads, subsea and surface production trees, mudline hanger systems, specialty connectors and associated pipe, drilling and production riser systems, liner hangers, wellhead connectors, diverters and safety valves. The Company's products are used by integrated, independent and foreign national oil and gas companies and drilling contractors throughout the world. The Company also provides technical advisory assistance on an as-requested basis during installation of its products, as well as rework and reconditioning services for customer-owned products. Its subsidiaries include Dril-Quip (Europe) Limited, Dril-Quip Asia-Pacific PTE Ltd. and Dril-Quip do Brasil LTDA.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of DRIL-QUIP INC
DRQ Guru Analysis
DRQ Fundamental Analysis
DELEK US HOLDINGS INC (DK) is a small-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Delek US Holdings, Inc. is an integrated downstream energy company. The Company is focused on petroleum refining, transportation, storage, and wholesale distribution of crude oil, intermediate and refined products, and convenience store retailing. The Company's segments include Refining, Logistics, and Retail. The refining segment processes crude oil and other feedstocks for the manufacture of transportation motor fuels, including various grades of gasoline, diesel fuel and aviation fuel, asphalt, and other petroleum-based products that are distributed through owned and third-party product terminals. The logistics segment owns and operates crude oil and refined products logistics and marketing assets. The retail segment consists of approximately 248 owned and leased convenience store sites located primarily in West Texas and New Mexico. The Company's subsidiaries include Delek US Energy, Inc. and Alon USA Energy, Inc.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of DELEK US HOLDINGS INC
DK Guru Analysis
DK Fundamental Analysis
DELEK LOGISTICS PARTNERS LP (DKL) is a mid-cap value stock in the Oil Well Services & Equipment industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Delek Logistics Partners, LP is a limited partnership that owns and operates crude oil, intermediate and refined products pipelines and transportation, storage, wholesale marketing, terminalling and offloading assets. It has three segments. The pipelines and transportation segment includes pipelines, trucks and ancillary assets, that provide crude oil gathering and crude oil, intermediate and refined products transportation and storage services to independent third parties and Delek US Holdings, Inc. (Delek Holdings). The wholesale marketing and terminalling segment provides marketing services for the refined products output of the Delek Holdings' refineries, and provides terminalling services at its refined products terminals to independent third parties and Delek Holdings. The Partnership owns a portion of three joint ventures that have constructed separate crude oil pipeline systems and related ancillary assets, which serve third parties and subsidiaries of Delek Holdings.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of DELEK LOGISTICS PARTNERS LP
DKL Guru Analysis
DKL Fundamental Analysis
COMSTOCK RESOURCES INC (CRK) is a mid-cap value stock in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski is 0% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Comstock Resources, Inc. is an independent energy company. The Company is engaged in the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the United States. The Company operates through one segment: the exploration and production of North American oil and natural gas. The Company primarily operates in the Haynesville shale, a natural gas basin located in North Louisiana and East Texas, with economic and geographical proximity to the Gulf Coast markets. The Company is focused on the development of drilling opportunities in the Haynesville and Bossier shales. The Company has approximately 2,000 drilling locations on its Haynesville/Bossier shale acreage, where the Company estimates to have 19 trillion cubic feet equivalent (TCFE) of reserve potential. The Company owns interests in approximately 2,393 producing oil and natural gas wells (1,464.7 net) and operates 1,633 of these wells.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of COMSTOCK RESOURCES INC
CRK Guru Analysis
CRK Fundamental Analysis
Joseph Piotroski Portfolio
About Joseph Piotroski:  Piotroski isn't your typical Wall Street big shot. In fact, he's not even a professional investor. He's a good old numbers-crunching accountant and college professor. But in 2000, shortly after he started teaching at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Piotroski published a groundbreaking paper in the Journal of Accounting Research entitled "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers". In it, Piotroski laid out an accounting-based stock-selection/shorting method that produced a 23 percent average annual back-tested return from 1976 through 1996 -- more than double the S&P 500's gain during that time. Piotroski's findings were reported in major financial publiations like SmartMoney. Today, he teaches accounting at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.