March 12, 2023 — 06:43 am EDT

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


There are some attractively priced stocks for long-term investors right now. In this video, Certified Financial Planner® Matt Frankel explains why he recently added to his Disney (NYSE: DIS) position, while Fool.com contributor Tyler Crowe discusses why he bought more shares of Cleveland-Cliffs (NYSE: CLF).
*Stock prices used were the midday prices of March 7, 2023. The video was published on March 8, 2023. 

10 stocks we like better than Walt DisneyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Walt Disney wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Matthew Frankel, CFP® has positions in Walt Disney and has the following options: long February 2023 $112 calls on Walt Disney. Tyler Crowe has positions in Cleveland-Cliffs. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Walt Disney. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $145 calls on Walt Disney and short January 2024 $155 calls on Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Matthew Frankel is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.