March 12, 2023 — 06:35 am EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Dick's Sporting Goods (NYSE: DKS) jumped more than 10% over the past week, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, after the retailer doubled its dividend.
Dick's net sales rose 7.3% year over year to $3.6 billion, driven by a 5.3% rise in comparable-store sales. Both metrics topped Wall Street's projections, which had called for revenue of $3.45 billion and comp growth of 2.1%. Dick's is benefiting as more people prioritized health and fitness during the pandemic. The sporting goods retailer is also gaining market share as its less financially sound rivals struggle.
Still, supply chain challenges and inventory overages took a toll on Dick's profit margins. Its adjusted net income, in turn, declined by 27% to $258 million. And its adjusted earnings per share, aided by stock buybacks, decreased by a somewhat more moderate 20% to $2.93. That, too, was better than analysts' estimates, which had called for adjusted per-share profits of $2.88.
Management expects Dick's full-year earnings per share to improve to between $12.90 and $13.80 in 2023, up from $12.04 in 2022. "As planned, we continued to address targeted inventory overages, and as a result, our inventory is in great shape as we start 2023," CEO Lauren Hobart said in a press release.
This projected profit growth prompted Dick's to raise its annualized dividend by a whopping 105% to $4.00 per share.
"In 2023, we will grow both our sales and earnings through positive comps, a return to square footage growth, and higher merchandise margin," Hobart said. "Our consistent performance and financial strength position us to increase the rate of investment in our business to fuel long-term growth opportunities and also return significant capital to shareholders."
10 stocks we like better than Dick's Sporting GoodsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Dick's Sporting Goods wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.