March 12, 2023 — 06:02 am EDT

      Written by
                        Stefon Walters for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


After you have paid Social Security taxes for years, retirement is the time to reap the benefits with monthly payouts. And although Social Security can be a great source of retirement income, it's likely better to view it as supplemental income and not the primary source.
That's why I'm not counting on Social Security by itself to cover my finances in retirement, and neither should you.
The amount of income needed in retirement varies widely based on factors like lifestyle and location. However, you can start your calculations by following some general guidelines. The main two are the 80% rule and the 4% rule, which deal with how much you'll need annually and in total, respectively.
Image source: Getty Images.
The 80% rule says you should aim to have around 80% of your annual income in retirement to maintain your current lifestyle. The 4% rule says you should plan to withdraw 4% of your savings (adjusting for inflation each year) annually for 30 years without worrying about outliving your money. To find your target savings goal, multiply your ideal retirement annual income by 25.
Here are examples of how much someone might need using the 80% and 4% baselines:
Data source: Author calculations.
Your Social Security benefit will largely depend on your lifetime earnings (the more you earn, the higher the benefits) and your full retirement age, which is based on your birth year.
Data source: Social Security Administration.
Your full retirement age is the age at which you become eligible to receive your full monthly benefit. You can begin receiving benefits as early as age 62, but doing so will reduce your monthly benefit. Conversely, you can delay your benefits past your full retirement age, increasing them until you reach 70. You don't technically have to begin receiving benefits at 70, but they won't increase past that, so there's no real reason not to take the money.
Here are the maximum monthly Social Security payouts for 2023:
Even if we assume someone gets the maximum monthly benefit -- which most won't -- that still wouldn't be enough to carry them through retirement using our 80% rule guidelines. Those maximum payouts are just over $30,800, $43,500, and $54,600 annually, respectively.
And that's assuming a best-case scenario. The average monthly retirement benefit as of January 2023 was $1,779, which is just over $21,300 annually.
One of the best things you can do to make sure you're financially prepared for retirement is to utilize all the available resources (i.e., retirement accounts). A lot of people are familiar with 401(k)s because they're offered through employers, but fewer people use IRAs.
There are two main types of IRAs: traditional and Roth. A traditional IRA is similar to a 401(k) because contributions can lower your taxable income, depending on your income and filing status, and you'll owe taxes on any withdrawals in retirement. Contributions to a Roth IRA are after taxes, but you can take tax-free withdrawals in retirement.
Whether you go with a traditional or Roth IRA should largely depend on your current tax bracket versus your projected bracket in retirement. If you're in your peak earning years, it makes sense to go with a traditional IRA so you delay paying taxes until you're in a lower bracket in retirement. If your tax bracket is likely to increase at retirement, however, it makes sense to go with a Roth IRA so you pay taxes now instead of later, when you're in the higher bracket.
IRAs have relatively low annual contribution limits -- $6,500 ($7,500 if you're 50 or older) for 2023 -- so they shouldn't be your primary source of retirement income, but much like Social Security, they can be great supplements. If you're saving and investing for retirement, you might as well get tax breaks along the way.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.