March 12, 2023 — 05:52 am EDT

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The Dow Jones Industrial Average has held up better than most major indexes over the last year. It slipped only a little during the period. Meanwhile, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite Index have been hit much harder.
But that doesn't mean all of the stocks in the Dow Jones have fared relatively well. A handful of the members of the index remain well below their previous highs. Some of those declines present excelling opportunities for investors. Here's one Dow stock down 52% to buy hand over fist.
Shares of Walt Disney (NYSE: DIS) have jumped more than 10% so far in 2023. However, this gain hasn't been nearly enough to offset the stock's steep decline over the past couple of years. Disney stock is still down 52% below its previous high set in early 2021.
Concerns about the economy weighed on the stock last year. Investors were worried that high inflation would negatively affect Disney. Those concerns were at least partially justified as the company saw lower advertising revenue and compressed margins. 
But the bigger problem for the entertainment giant was its Disney+ streaming service. Sure, Disney+ gained millions of subscribers in a relatively short time. However, the average revenue per subscriber has been weak compared to other streaming services and declined further in the latest quarter. 
Disney+ remains unprofitable. The unit serves as a significant drag on Disney's overall earnings. Some have even speculated that launching the streaming service was a mistake.
If Disney wasn't doing anything about its issues, the stock would probably struggle to rebound. However, the company isn't burying its head in the sand. 
Bob Iger returned as CEO in November, after previously serving in the role from 2005 to 2020. He committed himself to getting the company back on track, and in February, Disney announced a major restructuring aimed at boosting profitability.
There are reasons to be optimistic about Disney over the near term. The company's theme parks continue to deliver strong growth, with revenue jumping 27% year over year in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Disney has several movies on the way that are likely to be big winners at the box office, including Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3. Perhaps most importantly, Disney+ is on track to generate a profit by the end of fiscal 2024.
Income investors will also soon have a reason to buy the stock. Disney announced last month that it plans to reinstate its dividend. The company suspended its dividend program because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, though, Disney is confident enough about its earnings power that it intends to begin paying a dividend again by the end of this calendar year.
Disney's shares currently trade at around 24 times expected earnings. But the stock isn't too far away from being a bargain if you factor in its growth prospects. Its price-to-earnings-to-growth (PEG) ratio is slightly above 1 -- the level that legendary investor Peter Lynch considers to be an attractive price for a stock.
Unsurprisingly, Wall Street thinks that the stock will rebound. The consensus 12-month price target for Disney reflects an upside potential of more than 30%.
While Disney has some potential near-term catalysts, the main reason to buy the stock is its long-term prospects. The entertainment world continues to change rapidly, but content will remain king. And Disney will no doubt maintain its reign as the king of content -- and the preeminent master at monetizing content.
Find out why Walt Disney is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Walt Disney is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Keith Speights has positions in Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Walt Disney. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $145 calls on Walt Disney and short January 2024 $155 calls on Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.