March 12, 2023 — 05:03 am EDT

      Written by
                        Jason Hall and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Russia's war in Ukraine has impacted global fertilizer supplies, along with grains and other food stocks. It's been great for the bottom lines of CF Industries (NYSE: CF) and Nutrien (NYSE: NTR). But investors have been slow to appreciate their future prospects, leaving both trading for single-digit forward earnings multiples. In this video, Motley Fool contributors Tyler Crowe and Jason Hall break down the bull case for fertilizer stocks, and why Tyler likes these two in particular. 
*Stock prices used were from the afternoon of March 9, 2023. The video was published on March 12, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than NutrienWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Nutrien wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Jason Hall has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Tyler Crowe has positions in Nutrien. The Motley Fool recommends Nutrien. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jason Hall is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.