March 11, 2023 — 08:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Parkev Tatevosian for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Zoom Video Technologies (NASDAQ: ZM) and DocuSign (NASDAQ: DOCU) each benefited from the stay-at-home trends in the earlier stages of the pandemic. As economies have reopened, growth has been harder to come by. This video compares the two across critical financial metrics to determine which is the best stock to buy.
*Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of March 8, 2023. The video was published on March 10, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Zoom Video CommunicationsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Zoom Video Communications wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Parkev Tatevosian, CFA has positions in DocuSign. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends DocuSign and Zoom Video Communications. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $60 calls on DocuSign. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Parkev Tatevosian is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through fool.com/parkev, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.