March 11, 2023 — 06:37 am EST

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Warren Buffett is 92 years old, and his right-hand man, Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK.A)(NYSE: BRK.B) vice chairman Charlie Munger, is 99. It's fair to say that the pair won't be running the show for decades to come. In this clip, I sit down with Fool.com contributor Tyler Crowe to discuss Berkshire's succession plan and what we think the biggest changes will be under future leadership.
*Stock prices used were the midday prices of March 7, 2023. The video was published on March 8, 2023. 

10 stocks we like better than Berkshire HathawayWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Berkshire Hathaway wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Matthew Frankel, CFP® has positions in Amazon.com and Berkshire Hathaway. Tyler Crowe has positions in Apple and Berkshire Hathaway. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com, Apple, Berkshire Hathaway, and Snowflake. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Matthew Frankel is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.