March 11, 2023 — 06:30 am EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


No company in the crypto market is innovating and building a foundation for the future like Coinbase (NASDAQ: COIN). This isn't just a crypto exchange; this is a picks-and-shovels company for the blockchain. In this video, Travis Hoium covers three recent announcements and shows how Wallet as a Service could become a calling card for Coinbase. 
*Stock prices used were end-of-day prices of March 7, 2023. The video was published on March 10, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Coinbase GlobalWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Coinbase Global wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Travis Hoium has positions in Alphabet, Coinbase Global, and Ethereum. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Amazon.com, Coinbase Global, Ethereum, JPMorgan Chase, Meta Platforms, and Starbucks. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: short April 2023 $100 calls on Starbucks. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.