March 11, 2023 — 05:18 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Many people spend their working years living in an expensive part of the country because doing so gives them access to great schools for their kids and jobs with higher salaries. But once you retire, ideally, you won't have to worry about any of those things. And so you may be inclined to move to a locale that's less expensive than where you live today.
Let's say you're in line for a $2,000 monthly Social Security benefit, and you plan to withdraw another $2,000 a month from your nest egg. Your $4,000 a month may not go very far in a more expensive area. But in a lower-cost part of the U.S., that could make for a very comfortable lifestyle.
Not only might relocating in retirement help lower your living costs, but it could also allow you to sell a more expensive home, replace it with a cheaper one, and pocket the difference. And going that route may end up being a more lucrative prospect than you'd imagine.
Image source: Getty Images.
A recent report by Vanguard found that relocating in retirement is a great way to cash out on home equity and enjoy more financial stability. Specifically, the report found that migrating to a cheaper housing market could help the typical older homeowner extract about $100,000 of home equity.
Now, clearly, that $100,000 figure won't hold true in every scenario. And Vanguard's estimate is based on 2019 data and home values. But if anything, home values are generally higher today than they were four years ago, so this strategy is one that could pay off for you in a very big way.
Let's say you own your home outright, and it's worth $400,000. If you were to sell it and move to an area where you can buy a comparable home for $300,000, it's easy to see how you might manage to walk away with a huge payday. And from there, you'd have the option to save and invest your home sale proceeds to have even more income at your disposal.
If you live in an expensive housing market or part of the county and you relocate to one that's less expensive, you might benefit financially to a notable degree. But there are consequences to relocating in retirement that aren't just financial.
Relocating could put you hours away from family, like your grown kids and grandchildren. It could also put you far away from your social network and support system.
Relocating might also mean losing access to certain amenities you enjoy today, like nearby shops, access to great healthcare providers, and public transportation. These are factors to seriously consider before making your choice.
Remember, if relocating in retirement doesn't work for you, you could always try downsizing while staying where you are. You may not walk away with as large a profit as you would by selling your home and buying a much cheaper one in a completely different market. But you can still benefit financially without having to abandon an area that has a lot to offer you.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.