March 10, 2023 — 07:01 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


A deep analyst price target cut led to a steep decline in MongoDB's (NASDAQ: MDB) value on the last trading day of the week. The database specialist saw its share price erode by over 7%; even the under-pressure S&P 500 index did better, with a relatively benign 1.5% drop on the day.
While this doesn't mean that said analyst -- Credit Suisse's Fred Lee -- is now bearish on MongoDB, his is not an encouraging move either. Lee now pegs the stock as being worth $250 per share, quite some distance below his previous estimation of $305. He remains a MongoDB bull, though, as he maintained his outperform (read: Buy) recommendation on the tech company's shares.
Lee's adjustment is one of a series by analysts from a clutch of name researchers including Citigroup, Wedbush, and Mizuho (although, to be fair, not every one of them cut their price target). They follow MongoDB's release of its fourth-quarter and full-year 2022 results. Although it handily beat the average prognosticator projection for both revenue and profitability, its top-line guidance fell short of estimates.
Investors are also likely concerned that MongoDB clients aren't significantly increasing their usage. The company relies on a consumption-based sales model.
Most investors are far more concerned with a stock's potential rather than its trailing performance. Already concerned with MongoDB's sales dynamic, they still seem spooked by those weak revenue guidance figures. Hopefully for MongoDB investors, the company will find ways to encourage more user consumption.
10 stocks we like better than MongoDBWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and MongoDB wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Citigroup is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends MongoDB. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.