March 17, 2023 — 11:16 am EDT

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Emergent BioSolutions (NYSE: EBS) were sinking 12.8% lower as of 10:53 a.m. ET on Friday. The decline came after J.P. Morgan analyst Jessica Fye downgraded the stock from a neutral rating to an underweight (don't buy) rating. Fye also slashed the 12-month price target for Emergent BioSolutions from $23 to $9.
Wall Street analysts aren't always right. There's even considerable disagreement among analysts about the prospects for Emergent BioSolutions. Five of the six analysts surveyed by Refinitiv in March rate the healthcare stock as a buy or strong buy.
Emergent BioSolutions certainly faces some challenges, though, that could justify investors' caution. The company's total revenue in 2022 plunged 37%. Emergent swung from a profit in 2021 of $230.9 million to a loss of $223.8 million last year. 
This year probably won't be a great one, either. Emergent projects full-year 2023 revenue of between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion. This midpoint of the range reflects a year-over-year increase of 2.7%. The company also expects another net loss this year of between $180 million and $130 million.
Investors have a couple of important things to look forward to with Emergent BioSolutions. In February, a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory committee voted unanimously in favor of allowing Emergent's opioid overdose reversal nasal spray Narcan to be available over the counter. The FDA should announce its approval decision by March 29, 2023. Also, Emergent's sale of its travel health business to Bavarian Nordic is expected to close in the second quarter of this year. 
10 stocks we like better than Emergent BioSolutionsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Emergent BioSolutions wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Keith Speights has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase. The Motley Fool recommends Emergent BioSolutions. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.