March 10, 2023 — 10:49 am EST

      Written by
                        Jon Quast for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of e-commerce software company Riskified (NYSE: RSKD) popped on Friday, even though the stock market was slumping, after receiving a big upgrade from a prominent analyst. As of 9:45 a.m. ET, Riskified stock was up about 10% but it had been up as much as 14%.
Last week, Riskified's team met with analysts from Piper Sandler, according to The Fly. Today, Piper Sandler analyst Brent Bracelin said he believes Riskified stock is worth buying, according to TipRanks, giving it a price target of $8 per share. This implies over 30% additional upside from here.
Through its software, Riskified attempts to approve more transactions for its e-commerce customers while simultaneously reducing fraud. The stock has fallen since it went public in 2021 because some investors question how effective the software is. But Bracelin is apparently more optimistic about the company's progress.
There is reason for optimism. Yesterday, Riskified issued a press release about one of its customers, Gametime. Transactions are up for Gametime, as are satisfaction scores from its customers, potentially pointing to the growing effectiveness of Riskified's services. For perspective, Riskified uses machine learning in its software, so its software is constantly in a state of change.
In Riskified's case, gross margin can be a good way of measuring the effectiveness of its software and contextualizing announcements like yesterday's regarding Gametime. In 2022, the company had a gross margin of 52% and it expects a gross margin of 51% to 52% in 2023.
Therefore, Riskified still has more work to do to meaningfully improve its service and be a good long-term investment. But there are some encouraging signs nonetheless.
10 stocks we like better than RiskifiedWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Riskified wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Jon Quast has positions in Riskified. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Riskified. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.