March 10, 2023 — 10:33 am EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the universe of stocks we cover at Dividend Channel, on 3/14/23, Graphic Packaging Holding Co (Symbol: GPK), Worthington Industries, Inc. (Symbol: WOR), and Alpha Metallurgical Resources Inc (Symbol: AMR) will all trade ex-dividend for their respective upcoming dividends.  Graphic Packaging Holding Co will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.10 on 4/5/23, Worthington Industries, Inc. will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.31 on 3/29/23, and Alpha Metallurgical Resources Inc will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.44 on 4/3/23.  

As a percentage of GPK's recent stock price of $24.49, this dividend works out to approximately 0.41%, so look for shares of Graphic Packaging Holding Co to trade 0.41% lower — all else being equal — when GPK shares open for trading on 3/14/23.  Similarly, investors should look for WOR to open 0.54% lower in price and for AMR to open 0.26% lower, all else being equal.






Below are dividend history charts for GPK, WOR, and AMR, showing historical dividends prior to the most recent ones declared.


Graphic Packaging Holding Co (Symbol: GPK):










Worthington Industries, Inc. (Symbol: WOR):


Alpha Metallurgical Resources Inc (Symbol: AMR):



In general, dividends are not always predictable, following the ups and downs of company profits over time.  Therefore, a good first due diligence step in forming an expectation of annual yield going forward, is looking at the history above, for a sense of stability over time.  This can help in judging whether the most recent dividends from these companies are likely to continue.  If they do continue, the current estimated yields on annualized basis would be 1.63% for Graphic Packaging Holding Co, 2.15% for Worthington Industries, Inc., and 1.02% for Alpha Metallurgical Resources Inc.  



		


In Friday trading, Graphic Packaging Holding Co shares are currently down about 0.5%, Worthington Industries, Inc. shares are off about 0.9%, and Alpha Metallurgical Resources Inc shares are down about 1.3% on the day. 


Click here to learn which 25 S.A.F.E. dividend stocks should be on your radar screen »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.