March 10, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


An underappreciated piece of Alphabet's (NASDAQ: GOOG) (NASDAQ: GOOGL) portfolio of assets is its venture investments. Alphabet has invested in over 1,000 companies and generated profits from dozens of them that are now public. This may be one of the most successful venture funds of all time, and it drives value for Alphabet in a number of ways. Travis Hoium digs into this $8 billion fund in the video below. 
*Stock prices used were end-of-day prices of March 7, 2023. The video was published on March 10, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than AlphabetWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Alphabet wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Travis Hoium has positions in Airbnb and Alphabet. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb, Alphabet, CrowdStrike, DocuSign, Lemonade, and Uber Technologies. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $60 calls on DocuSign. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.