March 10, 2023 — 06:45 am EST

      Written by
                        Bram Berkowitz for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


After roughly three years with the student loan moratorium in place, it looks like the one-stop shop financial services company SoFi (NASDAQ: SOFI) has finally run out of patience with the Biden administration.
Recently, SoFi sued the administration and requested that a federal court reverse the Biden administration's decision to extend the moratorium for an eighth time. Since the moratorium was first adopted, it has cost the company potentially hundreds of millions in profits, SoFi says. Here's why.
The moratorium was first instituted in early 2020 during the Trump administration in response to the pandemic, with the goal of alleviating financial hardship as much as possible during the unprecedented economic shutdown. But even as consumer savings swelled during the pandemic, the moratorium remained in place.
Image source: Getty Images.
It was scheduled to expire at the beginning of this year but then lawmakers challenged President Biden's plan to forgive as much as $20,000 in student loan debt to certain borrowers. The Supreme Court is expected to soon rule on the matter and the Biden administration extended the moratorium until the Supreme Court makes a ruling.
Student loan refinancing used to be SoFi's largest lending business but since the moratorium, originations have plummeted. Higher interest rates have only made refinancing even less attractive. When the moratorium is in place, student loan borrowers has less incentive to refinance because they are not making payments on their current loans. Furthermore, speculation about student loan forgiveness left borrowers in limbo. Why would you refinance if you could get $10,000 or $20,000 wiped away? 
SoFi has, unfortunately for the company, had the worst of both worlds. The moratorium has been around way longer than anticipated and the student loan forgiveness debate has been dragged out. If you're a SoFi shareholder, all you want is clarity at this point so people can move forward with refinancing.
SoFi in its lawsuit claims the latest extension of the moratorium has cost the company $6 million in profits and could lead to $30 million in lost profits if it continues until August, which is when it is currently expected to expire. Since the moratorium was first enacted, SoFi claims it has cost the company $150 million to $200 million in potential profits.
"The eighth extension does not even attempt to redress harm from the pandemic at all, but rather to alleviate 'uncertainty' caused by the debt-cancellation litigation," SoFi said in its lawsuit, adding that the moratorium at this point should only apply to people who would be eligible for forgiveness.
I don't think the company is doing itself any favors from a public relations perspective with this lawsuit. Regulators are already looking into the company's crypto operations and student loans are a hot-button issue. With a Supreme Court ruling expected in June, I'm not really sure what this lawsuit can accomplish from a legal perspective before then.
While I can only speculate here, one reason SoFi might be doing this is to try to push the agenda or prepare for a Supreme Court ruling (expected in June) that strikes down Biden's forgiveness plan.
At that point, Biden may move to extend the moratorium again. SoFi's stock has been hammered and the market is really looking for growth companies that are profitable, which SoFi doesn't expect to achieve until the end of this year. Another extension of the moratorium may throw a wrench in that plan.
10 stocks we like better than SoFi TechnologiesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and SoFi Technologies wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Bram Berkowitz has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.