March 10, 2023 — 05:45 am EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Electric vehicle stocks are falling across the board in 2023 as investors question how price cuts, higher interest rates, and increasing competition will impact the industry. It hasn't helped that Lucid (NASDAQ: LCID) and Rivian (NASDAQ: RIVN) have questions about demand, and Rivian said it will sell debt to raise even more cash. Travis Hoium digs into why EV stocks are down so badly recently. 
*Stock prices used were end-of-day prices of March 7, 2023. The video was published on March 10, 2023.

Find out why Tesla is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Tesla is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has positions in Rivian Automotive and has the following options: long March 2023 $250 puts on Tesla. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Tesla. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
 Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.