March 09, 2023 — 06:36 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


A great many investors turned the page on storied publishing house John Wiley & Sons (NYSE: JW.A) on Thursday. This was understandable, as their company published quarterly results that fell significantly short of both trailing and future estimates.
The story didn't have a happy ending, with the stock's price diving by more than 17% as a result.
Thursday morning, Wiley released its fiscal third quarter of 2023 figures, which revealed that its revenue was $491 million for the period. This was down 5% on a year-over-year basis and came in lower than the average analyst estimate of over $494 million. 
The plot was the same on the bottom line, with non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) adjusted net income sliding to under $53.5 million ($0.85 per share) from the year-ago profit of nearly $66.6 million. The consensus prognosticator forecast was notably higher, at $0.91 per share.
Revenue was down at both of Wiley's main income sources: research and academic publishing. The former saw a decline of 5% year over year in revenue, while the latter fell more steeply at a 10% clip.
It doesn't seem as if any relief is on the way. In its earnings release, Wiley reduced its guidance for 2023.
The company is now estimating that it's going to book just under $2.07 billion to $2.09 billion in revenue for the year, which is down from its previous guidance of $2.11 billion to $2.15 billion. It's also short of the average analyst projection of $2.19 billion.
As for profitability, Wiley now believes its adjusted, per-share net income figure will be $3.30 to $3.55; that's down from the preceding forecast of $3.70 to $4.05. Like revenue, it doesn't meet the consensus analyst expectation, which is $3.96.
10 stocks we like better than John Wiley & SonsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and John Wiley & Sons wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.