March 09, 2023 — 03:35 pm EST

      Written by
                        Danny Vena for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The broader markets slumped today as investors digested the latest unemployment figures. The jobless data suggests that the Federal Reserve Bank's campaign of rising interest rates -- its primary tool for fighting inflation -- may finally be having the desired effect. Unfortunately, it may not be enough to stop the Fed from increasing the pace and tenor of its interest rate hikes.
The news acted to drive down a broad cross-section of stocks, as Shopify (NYSE: SHOP) slipped 0.8%, CrowdStrike (NASDAQ: CRWD) fell 3.8%, and Roku (NASDAQ: ROKU) tumbled 4.2% as of 2:55 p.m. ET.
Even as the macro conditions remain uncertain, however, there were positive developments for each company.
Image source: Getty Images.
The weekly unemployment report, courtesy of the U.S. Department of Labor, revealed that initial jobless claims rose by 21,000 to a seasonally adjusted 211,000 for the week ending March 4. This blew past economists' forecasts, which were calling for jobless claims of 195,000, and marked the biggest weekly jump since November 2021. Continuing claims, which accounts for the number of people already collecting unemployment benefits, increased by 69,000, rising to 1.72 million -- the highest reading since December. 
Initial unemployment claims, which act as a proxy for job cuts, have remained at or below pre-pandemic levels, despite an increasing number of high-profile employers announcing layoffs.
While the figures are still historically low, the abrupt increase suggests that job seekers are starting to have a tougher time finding employment as market conditions tighten.
Increasing unemployment is normally perceived as bad news -- but we live in extraordinary times. A slowing job market will be a necessary precursor to lowering inflation. The increase in jobless claims could mark a turning point for the overheated economy.
Here's how it works -- at least in theory: When the economy grows too quickly, groceries, fuel, and even housing becomes more expensive, weighing on consumer budgets. The Fed then raises interest rates, which makes borrowing more expensive, causing consumers and businesses to cut back. The shrinking demand eventually causes prices to fall. Unfortunately, since the process is more art than science, it's difficult to gauge how long it will take to lower inflation.
The news of the tightening job market suggests that the Fed's campaign is working, which should be welcome news to our trio of companies. As inflation declines, consumer and business budgets will see much-needed relief, giving them back buying power.
In spite of the uncertain economic backdrop, there was positive news for each of these companies:
The ongoing market downturn has resulted in each of these stocks being cheaper than they have been in some time. Roku is the most obvious bargain of the three, selling for 2 times next year's sales. For context, a reasonable price-to-sales ratio is between 1 and 2.
Shopify and CrowdStrike still have a measure of growth baked into their valuations, each selling for roughly 7 times next year's sales. I would argue, however, that a strong history of growth and future potential make them deserving of a premium.
For investors who plan to hold for three to five years, all three stocks represent a clear buying opportunity.
10 stocks we like better than ShopifyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Shopify wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Danny Vena has positions in Amazon.com, CrowdStrike, Roku, Shopify, and Stitch Fix. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com, Best Buy, CrowdStrike, Roku, Shopify, and Stitch Fix. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.