March 09, 2023 — 03:06 pm EST

      Written by
                        Jim Halley for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Ocean Biomedical (NASDAQ: OCEA) were up more than 118% as of 2:45 p.m. Thursday. The preclinical-stage biotech, which began publicly trading on the NASDAQ on February 15, focuses on deadly diseases, including malaria, numerous cancers, and pulmonary fibrosis.
The reason for the surge was a talk at Brown University's Legorreta Cancer Center by Ocean Biomedical's scientific co-founder, Dr. Jack A. Elias, who presented details regarding potential therapies to suppress tumors on various cancers.
Elias focused on his company's work in understanding how the protein Chitinase 3-like-1 (CHI3LI) is involved in the progression of lung cancer. He also spoke about how his discoveries show that certain monospecific and bispecific antibodies can be used as therapies to treat non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). The company hopes to speed these discoveries into phase 1 trials.
The reason for the excitement over such preliminary news is that the target groups for both diseases are quite large.
The news comes on the heels of an announcement by the company on February 28 that co-founder Dr. Jonathan Kurtis had been awarded a patent for the discovery of third parasite target PfCDPK-5, which could be used to halt the parasite in various stages of the malaria cycle.
The jump on Thursday was enormous, but bear in mind that this is a newly traded small-cap stock with no marketed drugs and no clinical trials. Ocean Biomedical hasn't even released a quarterly report yet. While the stock might present a good long-term opportunity, the risk level is exceptionally high. Investors would be wise to see how the company progresses before diving in.
10 stocks we like better than Ocean BiomedicalWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Ocean Biomedical wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Jim Halley has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.