March 09, 2023 — 02:48 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


The worst performing sector as of midday Thursday is the Financial sector, showing a 3.2% loss.  Within that group, SVB Financial Group (Symbol: SIVB) and First Republic Bank (Symbol: FRC) are two large stocks that are lagging, showing a loss of 56.7% and 15.8%, respectively.  Among financial ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLF), which is down 3.4% on the day, and down 1.60% year-to-date.  SVB Financial Group, meanwhile, is down 48.52% year-to-date, and First Republic Bank, is down 20.09% year-to-date.  Combined, SIVB and FRC make up approximately 0.8% of the underlying holdings of XLF.


The next worst performing sector is the Materials sector, showing a 1.8% loss.  Among large Materials stocks, Albemarle Corp. (Symbol: ALB) and Howmet Aerospace Inc (Symbol: HWM) are the most notable, showing a loss of 5.3% and 3.4%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Materials stocks is the Materials Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLB), which is down 1.9% in midday trading, and up 3.65% on a year-to-date basis.  Albemarle Corp., meanwhile, is up 11.81% year-to-date, and Howmet Aerospace Inc is up 8.27% year-to-date.  ALB makes up approximately 3.2% of the underlying holdings of XLB.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Thursday.  As you can see, one sector is up on the day, while eight sectors are down.




10 ETFs With Stocks That Insiders Are Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.