March 09, 2023 — 02:48 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In afternoon trading on Thursday, Utilities stocks are the best performing sector, higher by 0.2%.  Within that group, Constellation Energy Corp (Symbol: CEG) and Evergy Inc (Symbol: EVRG) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 1.8% and 1.1%, respectively.  Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLU), which is up 0.3% on the day, and down 6.14% year-to-date.  Constellation Energy Corp, meanwhile, is down 2.60% year-to-date, and Evergy Inc, is down 4.57% year-to-date.  Combined, CEG and EVRG make up approximately 4.1% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


The next best performing sector is the Healthcare sector, losing just 0.6%.  Among large Healthcare stocks, Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc (Symbol: BIO) and Stryker Corp (Symbol: SYK) are the most notable, showing a gain of 2.1% and 2.0%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Healthcare stocks is the Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLV), which is down 0.5% in midday trading, and down 7.15% on a year-to-date basis.  Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc, meanwhile, is up 16.29% year-to-date, and Stryker Corp is up 10.15% year-to-date.  Combined, BIO and SYK make up approximately 2.1% of the underlying holdings of XLV.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Thursday.  As you can see, one sector is up on the day, while eight sectors are down.




10 ETFs With Stocks That Insiders Are Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.