March 09, 2023 — 12:28 pm EST

      Written by
                        Rich Smith for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Kronos Worldwide (NYSE: KRO) slid 15.8% through 11:30 a.m. ET this morning after the titanium dioxide pigment producer reported an even worse fourth quarter than investors had expected.  
The company's products are used as a whitener in paints, cosmetics, paper, and other products. Heading into the fourth-quarter report, analysts had forecast a loss of $0.07 per share on $319.8 million in sales. As it turned out, Kronos cleared that revenue hurdle, with sales topping $342.2 million. But it whiffed on earnings, losing $0.18 per share.  
So an earnings miss but a revenue beat at first glance looks like only a mixed quarter, and not ordinarily the kind of thing that would drive a stock down 16%.
But while Kronos beat estimates on sales, that number still dropped 31% from the $496 million in the year-ago quarter, and that's definitely bad news. Although management did its best to cut costs to compensate for the revenue shortfall (cost of goods sold was down 19%, and selling, general, and administrative spending was 25% lower year over year), it simply wasn't able to cut them as fast as revenue was dropping.
Result: Kronos flipped to an operating loss for the quarter, and a net loss as well.
Kronos still managed to end 2022 in the black, reporting a full-year profit of $0.90 per share, down only 8% from 2021. Still, that was a worse result than you would expect given that full-year sales declined only 0.5% year over year.
Looked at one way, this leaves Kronos Worldwide stock trading for a seemingly modest 9.2 times trailing earnings after today's stock price slide. But don't be fooled.
With more debt than cash on its balance sheet, sales on a decline, earnings in the red, and -- on top of all that -- no reassuring words from management promising a return to profitability next year, the outlook for Kronos stock right now looks rather grim. It seems more like a value trap than a value stock to me.
10 stocks we like better than Kronos WorldwideWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Kronos Worldwide wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Rich Smith has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.