March 09, 2023 — 12:07 pm EST

      Written by
                        Scott Levine for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Markets are inching north today, but shares of FuelCell Energy (NASDAQ: FCEL) are downright flying higher following the fuel cell company's reporting of its first-quarter 2023 earnings.
As of 11:39 a.m. ET, shares of FuelCell Energy are up 8.8%, retreating from their earlier climb of 21.8%.
Beating analysts' top-line estimates of $28.1 million, FuelCell Energy reported Q1 2023 sales of $37.1 million, a year-over-year increase of 17%. The bottom line of the income statement provided additional fuel for investors' excitement. While analysts had expected FuelCell Energy to report a loss per share of $0.07, the company's loss per share was narrower: $0.05. Its improved performance also contributed to the market's excitement. During the same period last year, FuelCell Energy reported a loss per share of $0.11.
In the middle of the income statement, investors found more reason to celebrate. FuelCell Energy reported a Q1 2023 gross profit of $5.2 million -- a significant improvement over the $2.9 million gross loss that it reported during the same period last year.
While the company provided encouraging results on the top and bottom of the income statement, investors should recognize that there were sources of concern in the report -- namely, the company's declining backlog. At the end of Q1 2023, FuelCell Energy had a backlog of $1.06 billion, representing a year-over-year decrease of 18.8%. Prospective hydrogen investors should look for this as a green flag in future earnings reports, tempering their excitement for the company's success in beating top- and bottom-line expectations.
10 stocks we like better than FuelCell EnergyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and FuelCell Energy wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Scott Levine has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.