March 09, 2023 — 10:21 am EST

      Written by
                        Anders Bylund for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Cryptocurrencies are the talk of the town these days, but let's face it: Most of them are pretty similar. They're digital assets, stored on a blockchain ledger, with transactions that can be verified and validated by anyone. Bitcoin set that basic pattern 15 years ago, and most crypto names haven't strayed far from it. But there's one cryptocurrency that's radically different from all the others. I'm talking about Polkadot (CRYPTO: DOT), the official cryptocurrency of the Web3 system.
Web3 is the future of the internet, where decentralized networks and blockchain technology will replace the centralized web we know today. While the current version of the internet (Web2) is dominated by a handful of large companies, Web3 is built on decentralized blockchain technology, which means that it is not controlled by any single entity.
And Polkadot is a platform that connects these different blockchain networks, allowing them to communicate with each other and share data in a secure and efficient way. The token, its blockchain network, and the whole Polkadot ecosystem were designed by the Web3 Foundation for the specific purpose of running the inner workings of a Web3 world.
What sets Polkadot apart from other crypto platforms is its massive scalability and effortless interoperability. Developers can create their own blockchains, or "parachains," that can interact with each other and with other blockchain networks. This creates a truly decentralized internet, where users can move freely between different networks and use the best features from each one. And with Polkadot's wide range of Web3 app-building tools, it's a snap to take advantage of many specialized blockchains or cryptocurrencies in a single, tightly integrated application.
Polkadot also uses a unique consensus mechanism called "Nominated Proof of Stake" (NPoS), which allows token holders to nominate validators who will secure the network and process transactions. Polkadot holders can choose other people to be validators. These validators are like the police officers of the blockchain, making sure that everything is running smoothly and nobody is trying to break the rules.
This separation of responsibilities makes Polkadot's validation system speedy and lightweight without sacrificing data security. This innovative approach ensures that the network is decentralized and secure, while also allowing for efficient and fast transaction processing.
Another key feature of Polkadot is its governance model, where token holders can vote on proposals and changes to the network. This gives the community a say in the direction of the platform, making it more democratic and transparent than most crypto platforms.
And we haven't even talked about Polkadot's project funding efforts yet, with crowdloans and parachain auctions. This is a sophisticated system for next-generation app development with built-in options for finding and boosting the best Polkadot projects.
Despite Polkadot's many valuable and often unique qualities, investors have been skeptical of the token in the last 15 months. Polkadot's price is down 79% since the start of 2022. Bitcoin and Ethereum are also down dramatically in the same time span, but Polkadot's dip is much deeper:

Polkadot Price data by YCharts
The falling price has not stopped me from picking up more Polkadot tokens in recent months. In fact, this is the only cryptocurrency I'm actively buying right now. The others can wait until Polkadot's bargain-bin discount pricing goes away.
So Polkadot is not like the other cryptocurrencies. With its unique sharding technology, multi-chain platform, and democratic governance model, it has the potential to revolutionize the world of blockchain development. Other cryptocurrencies may come and go, but Polkadot looks like it's here to stay.
10 stocks we like better than PolkadotWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Polkadot wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Anders Bylund has positions in Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Polkadot. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bitcoin and Ethereum. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.