March 09, 2023 — 06:43 am EST

      Written by
                        RTTNews.com for                             
        




RTTNews ->


(RTTNews) - Krispy Kreme, Inc. (DNUT) announced Thursday it is making St. Patrick's Day celebrations "Good as Gold" by introducing four all-new gold-themed doughnuts along with the return of the fan favorite green O'riginal Glazed Doughnut.
Beginning March 9 for a limited time at participating shops across the U.S., Krispy Kreme's all--new St. Patrick's Day collection features bright and delicious new doughnuts golden for sharing. They include:
Golden Cookies & Kreme Doughnut - A golden cookie Kreme filled doughnut shell dipped in white icing and covered in golden cookie pieces and a gold sprinkle blend.
Hat O' Gold Doughnut - A chocolate iced doughnut decorated with a plaid green icing pattern and topped with a leprechaun hat sugar piece.
Golden Sprinkle Doughnut - An Original Glazed doughnut dipped in green icing and topped with a gold St. Patrick's Day sprinkle blend.
Rainbow Kreme Filled Doughnut - An unglazed shell filled with White Kreme topped with green icing and decorated with a rainbow sugar piece, vanilla buttercream, and gold coin sprinkles.
To further brighten St. Patrick's Day celebrations, on March 16 and 17 Krispy Kreme will also bring back the beloved O'riginal Glazed Doughnut - an Original Glazed doughnut gone green, available by the dozen.
Guests wearing green who visit Krispy Kreme shops on either day (in-shop or drive-thru) can receive one FREE O'riginal Glazed Doughnut, with no purchase necessary.
Krispy Kreme's Good as Gold Dozen is available in-shop and for pickup or delivery via Krispy Kreme's app and website.
Krispy Kreme is also delivering fresh daily to select grocery stores near Krispy Kreme shops, a special 6-pack of St. Patrick's Day doughnuts, including the returning Chocolate Iced with St. Patrick's Sprinkles Doughnut, which also is available at Krispy Kreme shops. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.