March 08, 2023 — 06:19 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The latest development in the saga that is the proposed acquisition of Spirit Airlines (NYSE: SAVE) by peer JetBlue Airways (NASDAQ: JBLU) gave the former company's investors hope on Wednesday. Specifically, this was the reassignment of a government lawsuit on the deal to a new judge. The market reacted by bidding Spirit's stock up a chunky 4.5% on the day.
The lawsuit, which has been filed by the Justice Department on antitrust grounds, will be presided over by U.S. District Judge William Young in Boston. What's encouraging for Spirit investors is that Young has a reputation for speeding lawsuits to trial. This promises a relatively fast resolution to the matter, as opposed to a tough, dragged-out, and exhausting legal fight. 
On Tuesday, Justice, together with the states of Massachusetts and New York, plus the District of Columbia, filed its antitrust lawsuit. It alleges, "By eliminating that competition and further consolidating the United States airlines industry, the proposed transaction will increase fares and reduce choice on routes across the country, raising costs for the flying public and harming cost-conscious fliers most acutely."
In July 2022, Spirit agreed to the deal, in which JetBlue would acquire the budget airline for $33.50 per share in an all-cash acquisition. The deal's equity value is $3.8 billion. 
JetBlue in particular has signaled that it is willing to compromise, so perhaps the smart money is betting on a resolution in favor of the acquisition. Yet it isn't safe to assume the two companies will prevail, particularly when facing off in court against determined state and federal governments with vast resources.
With all this in mind, investors should be cautious here. 
10 stocks we like better than Spirit AirlinesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Spirit Airlines wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends JetBlue Airways. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.