March 08, 2023 — 05:54 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


There's nothing like a dividend raise to juice interest in a stock. So it was on Wednesday, when prominent mobile tech specialist Qualcomm (NASDAQ: QCOM) declared one. Grateful investors promptly traded the stock up, and it closed the day 1.7% higher. This was a far better performance than that of the S&P 500 index, which inched up only 0.1%.
Qualcomm delivered its happy news before market open, revealing that its quarterly payout would increase from the present level of $0.75 per share to $0.80. That shakes out into a 7% increase. 
This wasn't a shock or surprise for anyone. Somewhat atypically in the often capital-hungry tech sector, Qualcomm has been a reliable dividend payer and frequent raiser for over a decade. It habitually lifts its distribution near the start of every year, and 2023 has proven to be no exception.
In its press release trumpeting the new payout, the company indicated it would be "steady as she goes" regarding the dividend policy and other shareholder-pleasing moves. CEO Christiano Amon said, "We remain committed to returning capital to stockholders through a balanced capital return policy, including a baseline of anti-dilutive stock repurchases."
Qualcomm has not yet specified when it will pay its raised dividend, nor has it set its record or ex-dividend dates. The company's latest payout had a record date of March 2 and is to be dispensed on March 23, so we can reasonably assume the upcoming dates will be roughly three months afterward.
At the current share price, the new disbursement would yield a relatively generous 2.6%. 
10 stocks we like better than QualcommWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Qualcomm wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Qualcomm. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.