March 08, 2023 — 05:44 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


AGNC Investment (NASDAQ: AGNC) stock did a fine job of getting over the hump of Hump Day. Shares of the mortgage real estate investment trust (mREIT) closed Wednesday more than 2% higher, trouncing the marginal rise of the S&P 500 index, thanks largely to an analyst's recommendation upgrade.
Well before market open that day, JPMorgan Chase's Richard Shane tagged AGNC with an overweight, in other words buy, at a price target of $12.50 per share. He previously had it pegged at neutral. 
Shane's upgrade comes at a time when "headwinds from rising rates begin to abate," he said.
mREITs are highly dependent on interest rates, as they make their money on the "spread" between what they pay for their financing and what they take in from the securities in which they invest. Since the mortgage-backed securities (MBS) favored by mREITs underlie loans with very long terms, if interest rates get too high, an mREIT's profitability can be threatened.
Shane wrote that in the current environment, he believes MBS  prices will rebound and benefit AGNC's fundamentals. Meanwhile, its earnings fully cover its high-yield (nearly 14%) dividend. (REITs are required to pay out at least 90% of their net profit in dividends.) 
For the most part, investors have become more bullish on interest rate-sensitive stocks lately. Although inflation remains an issue, the pace of its growth has slowed lately. Investors should be cautious in this regard, however, as Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has hinted that the Fed has no immediate plans to curb its recent habit of hiking rates. 
10 stocks we like better than AGNC Investment Corp.When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and AGNC Investment Corp. wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.