March 08, 2023 — 01:28 pm EST

      Written by
                        Chris MacDonald for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Today's price action in the broader cryptocurrency market isn't very surprising. In aggregate, the value of all digital tokens has declined by 1% over the past 24 hours, as of 12:45 p.m. ET. However, over the same time frame, meme token Shiba Inu (CRYPTO: SHIB) has appreciated around 5.5%. For speculators and those playing momentum, this move is quite surprising.
Today's increase appears to be tied to the expected launch of the Shibarium Public beta later this week. Shibarium is a Layer 2 solution aimed at providing improved scalability as well as more affordable and cheaper transactions for Shiba Inu owners.
It's worth noting that this beta launch appears to be only for testing purposes, meaning commercial transactions might not happen for a while yet. According to a company Twitter post, more data on how users can access the beta website will be shared in the coming days. Thus, there's little detail on what exactly users can expect.
That said, this scalable network is currently viewed as a big deal for Shiba Inu's ability to create real utility among its community. In order for Shiba Inu to hold sustainable value, such utility is likely a necessary prerequisite, at least for most investors.
Shiba Inu's value, outside of its popularized status as a hype-driven meme token, is hard to quantify. In order for serious investors to get involved with this project, and for this token to move onto the radar of any institutional investor, developers will need to make significant progress in terms of the technological utility of this network.
The Shibarium launch should be an intriguing catalyst for this token -- and the entire sector -- this week. I'll be keeping my eye on how Shiba Inu performs following this debut.
For investors looking to take a long position on a speculative risk asset with some clear near-term momentum, the excitement around the potential for Shiba Inu to create a viable ecosystem of tokens could be a catalyst worth checking out. While this project still falls well outside my purview, it's certainly entertaining to watch.
10 stocks we like better than Shiba InuWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Shiba Inu wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Chris MacDonald has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.