March 08, 2023 — 11:23 am EST

      Written by
                        Scott Levine for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


While the Nasdaq is inching a tad higher this morning, shares of Maxeon Solar Technologies (NASDAQ: MAXN) are one of the bright spots in the index. The solar power company reported fourth-quarter 2022 financial results yesterday after the market closed, and investors are showing their excitement today. 
As of 10:55 a.m. ET, shares of Maxeon Solar have risen 39.3%.
Beating analysts' expectations that it would book Q4 2022 revenue of $315.7 million, Maxeon Solar reported $323.5 million on the top line. But what's really exciting investors today is what they found a little lower on the income statement: a gross profit. While Maxeon Solar forecast a fourth-quarter gross profit of negative $1 million to $9 million in its third-quarter earnings presentation, it blew past its guidance, reporting a gross profit of $20.1 million -- a company record.
And the growth in profitability is expected to continue. Management forecasts the company will produce positive adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) in the first quarter of 2023 and adjusted EBITDA of $80 million to $100 million for 2023.
Wall Street was also impressed with the company's results, leading several analysts to wax bullish on the stock's prospects:
With Maxeon Solar reporting a company record for gross profit and providing bullish adjusted EBITDA guidance, it's no wonder shares are soaring today. The stock's rise, however, seems a bit excessive. Those interested in Maxeon Solar may want to wait for a pullback before powering their portfolio with this solar stock.
10 stocks we like better than Maxeon Solar TechnologiesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Maxeon Solar Technologies wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Scott Levine has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.