March 08, 2023 — 10:35 am EST

      Written by
                        Paul Sandle for                             
        




Reuters ->


By Paul Sandle
LONDON, March 8 (Reuters) - Microsoft MSFT.O said it would license Activision Blizzard's ATVI.O "Call of Duty" (CoD) to Sony for 10 years to address concerns raised by Britain over its $69 billion takeover of the games maker, according to a document published by the regulator.
Microsoft last month struck a similar deal with Nvidia Corp's NVDA.O gaming platform, dependent on it getting the go-ahead for the much-contested acquisition. 
Microsoft President Brad Smith had said he hoped that rival Sony - which has strongly opposed the takeover - would consider doing the same type of deal.
Britain's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) in February said the deal could weaken the rivalry between Microsoft's Xbox and Sony's PlayStation, and stifle competition in cloud gaming. 
It suggested that structural remedies could be needed to allay its concerns, including divesting the business associated with 'Call of Duty.'
Sony, in its response to the CMA's findings, said the package of remedies it would offer protected all CoD players in Britain and provided substantial benefits to consumers and developers.
It added that it believed that the criteria for the CMA to consider behavioural remedies, such as those offered, had been met.
Sony, in its own submission to the CMA, rejected Microsoft's proposals, saying the only way to preserve competition in consoles and cloud gaming was to block the deal or subject it to a structural remedy, such as making Microsoft sell CoD.
The biggest-ever deal in gaming, announced in January last year, is facing scrutiny in the United States and in Europe. 
Microsoft is expected to secure EU antitrust approval with its offer of licensing deals to rivals, three people familiar with the matter told Reuters earlier this month, helping it to clear a major hurdle.
The CMA will rule on the deal on April 22.
(Reporting by Paul Sandle and Yadarisa Shabong; Editing by Kylie MacLellan and Mark Porter)
((paul.sandle@thomsonreuters.com; +44 20 7542 6843; Reuters Messaging: paul.sandle.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net))
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.