March 17, 2023 — 06:15 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The market wasn't in the mood to test MacroGenics (NASDAQ: MGNX) as an investment on Friday. The clinical-stage biotech's share price fell by almost 5%, a movement influenced greatly by an analyst's recommendation downgrade, mixed with a dash of profit-taking. By contrast, the S&P 500 index dipped by a little over 1% that day.
Before market open, Guggenheim prognosticator Charles Zhu changed his recommendation on MacroGenics stock. He now has it tagged as a neutral; previously he felt it was a buy.
Zhu's reasoning behind the downgrade wasn't immediately available. However, it came very quickly on the heels of MacroGenics' latest annual earnings report, which many investors took positively. There was quite a bit to like in the numbers, particularly the near-doubling of revenue over the 2021 tally, and a net loss that was considerably narrower than its predecessor's. 
This blasted the stock's price well higher on Thursday, so it's likely certain investors booked quick profits the following day. This post-earnings, profit-taking dynamic typically drives a stock's price down, particularly for small-cap titles. Like many biotech companies, MacroGenics falls into this category, with a market cap slightly over $411 million.
MacroGenics has the advantage of concentrating in a hot segment, as it specializes in developing monoclonal antibody therapeutics aimed at attacking cancer. And in contrast to most clinical-stage biotechs it has a revenue stream thanks to its antibody-based technology platforms.
So while Thursday's share-price blast might be an overreaction, Friday's sell-off feels unwarranted. Investors might well consider buying this promising company on the dip.
10 stocks we like better than MacroGenicsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and MacroGenics wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.