March 08, 2023 — 10:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Dani Cook for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


As a leader in computing components, Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ: AMD) is a company building the future with lucrative prospects in a variety of industries that all require its hardware to move forward.
AMD's stock plummeted 55% in 2022 amid economic challenges. However, the company's shares have steadily risen 26% since Jan. 1, as tech stocks have come back into favor with investors and the release of promising quarter results.
With its stock showing signs of recovery, now is an excellent time to learn more about this company of the future. Here are three things about AMD that smart investors know.
AMD's biggest competitor and the company it is most often compared to is Nvidia. Both companies compete in the consumer graphics processing unit (GPU) market, with their stocks similarly plunging over 50% in 2022 amid declines in PC component spending. 
However, there are a few reasons AMD is the better investment. Last year was difficult for all companies in the PC market, with worldwide shipments of GPUs falling 42% throughout 2022. AMD fared better, though, with its 8% market share in consumer GPUs, compared to Nvidia's 88%. As a result, in fiscal 2022, AMD's revenue rose 43.6% year over year to $23.6 billion, while Nvidia's increased 0.2% to $26.97 billion. 
AMD's better distribution of revenue meant that while its PC-centered segments suffered last year, it could pivot its business to more lucrative segments like data centers and embedded products. Combined, these segments reported revenue growth of 169% year over year to $10.5 billion in 2022. AMD has similar prospects to Nvidia in high-growth markets like artificial intelligence (AI) and data centers but feels like a stronger and more reliable business thanks to its diversity. 
According to Grand View Research, the virtual reality (VR) market was worth $21.83 billion in 2021 and is projected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15% through 2030. Meanwhile, AMD holds a dominating position in the industry as the producer of the hardware necessary to run and develop VR software. In fact, AMD has already partnered with Microsoft's Windows Mixed Reality, HTC's Vive, and Meta Platform's Oculus to power their respective VR headsets.
Moreover, tech giant Apple is expected to launch its first-ever mixed-reality headset in 2023, potentially boosting the market substantially. The iPhone company has a history of entering new markets with its products and rapidly speeding up the mass adoption of technology. Apple achieved this when launching its take on smartphones, tablets, Bluetooth headphones, and smartwatches.
As a result, AMD could significantly benefit from Apple's venture into VR, as it would encourage more competition and drum up more business for the chipmaker.
AI has been a hot topic in tech in recent months after start-up OpenAI launched its advanced chatbot, ChatGPT, in November 2022. The program's ability to produce human-like dialogue wowed the tech world and shined a light on an industry valued by Grand View Research at $136.55 billion in 2022 and expected to grow at a CAGR of 37.3% through 2030. 
Similar to VR, AMD is an excellent way to invest in the hardware side of the AI market. The company's GPUs and processors have the power to run and develop AI software, making its offerings incredibly attractive to companies like Microsoft, Amazon, and Alphabet, which are currently in a race to be crowned the king of artificial intelligence.
AI has the potential to enhance countless industries, from machine learning to healthcare, self-driving cars, education, and more. AMD CEO Lisa Su revealed in the company's fourth quarter of 2022earnings call "You can expect additional AI acceleration coming in our server portfolio ... So you're going to see AI broadly across our road maps."
It's positive AMD has an eye on the high-growth industry, strengthening its long-term outlook.
10 stocks we like better than Advanced Micro DevicesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Advanced Micro Devices wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Dani Cook has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Advanced Micro Devices, Alphabet, Amazon.com, Apple, Meta Platforms, Microsoft, and Nvidia. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.