March 08, 2023 — 09:45 am EST

      Written by
                        David Jagielski for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


There has been pressure from the U.S. government for healthcare companies to reduce the price of insulin. As the price of just about everything has been rising amid inflation levels not seen in decades, that's forcing people to make some very difficult decisions about what to spend money on, including healthcare.
Eli Lilly (NYSE: LLY) recently stepped up and said it would be drastically reducing the price of its insulin products. It's a good move as it helps people with diabetes, and while it may seem like this could put a dent in the company's financials, here's why investors don't need to worry much.
On March 1, Eli Lilly said that it would be making insulin more affordable for people by slashing the price of its most commonly prescribed insulins by 70%. People who don't have insurance can obtain the company's insulin for $35 per month through Eli Lilly's Insulin Value Program.
Insulin, however, is something that analysts see as eventually accounting for less and less of the company's top line. In 2022, Humalog and Humulin, the company's top two insulin products, generated a combined $3.1 billion in revenue. That represents about 11% of the $28.5 billion in sales that Eli Lilly reported for the full year.
But by 2027, analysts project that Eli Lilly's top two insulin treatments will account for less than 4% of revenue. And that doesn't necessarily mean that the company's sales will be declining as there will simply be other drugs and treatments fueling Eli Lilly's growth.
By 2027, analysts project that Mounjaro will represent 27% of Eli Lilly's revenue. Mounjaro is a recently approved diabetes treatment that patients have found effective in dramatically reducing their weight.
In a study released last year, participants using the treatment lost up to 22.5% of their body weight. Mounjaro has the potential to be a game changer for Eli Lilly's business, with some analysts believing that it could be used for many more indications and hit $100 billion in revenue at its peak. Last year, its sales totaled $483 million, so its growth story is still in its early innings. 
Plus, Alzheimer's treatment, donanemab, is also a potential blockbuster that could bring in billions in revenue for Eli Lilly. The company can afford to reduce insulin prices because it has such a bright future ahead of itself. Its financials are also rock-solid, with Eli Lilly reporting free cash flow of at least $4 billion in each of the past three years.
Eli Lilly's reduction of insulin prices will affect some of its products, but it won't drastically change the outlook for its business. Plus, the move might even buy it some goodwill with investors as it is taking the lead among healthcare companies on reducing insulin prices for the public.
And although the stock looks like it may be expensive, trading at 45 times earnings, this is a wonderful company to be investing in for the long haul. Eli Lilly also pays a dividend that yields 1.4% per year.
10 stocks we like better than Eli LillyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Eli Lilly wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 



David Jagielski has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.