March 17, 2023 — 09:33 am EDT

      Written by
                        Will Ebiefung for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For most people, $300 isn't a fortune. But it could help set the stage for some pretty impressive returns if invested in the right companies over a long enough time frame. Nvidia (NASDAQ: NVDA) and Dollar General (NYSE: DG) fit the bill. Let's explore why either of these stocks could turn your money into significantly more over the long term. 
Nvidia is a tech company known for manufacturing graphics processing units (GPUs) and other advanced computer hardware. New growth drivers like artificial intelligence (AI) could help power the next leg of growth. 
The near term has been challenging for Nvidia as pandemic-related tailwinds subside. Fourth-quarter revenue fell 21% to $6.05 billion because of weakness in the company's gaming segment, which declined by almost half. But with the introduction of the AI chatbot ChatGPT, investors are becoming increasingly confident that Nvidia could soon win a new lease on life. 
While companies like Apple and Alphabet spend billions developing consumer-facing AI platforms in an increasingly competitive space, Nvidia is content to provide hardware components behind the scenes. Management is working with 10,000 AI-related start-ups in a variety of industries to hopefully help power the next generation of these platforms. Nvidia's enterprise-focused strategy shields the company from the competition because it enjoys a 91.4% market share in enterprise GPUs. 
With a forward price-to-earnings (P/E) multiple of 53, Nvidia's stock is valued significantly higher than the S&P 500 average of 21, which can make it more vulnerable to market volatility. That said, the company's excellent niche in the AI growth opportunity helps justify its premium price tag. 
Founded in 1955 as one of America's first dollar stores, Dollar General is a staple for defensive investors who prioritize stability and resilience. The company's focus on low-priced goods makes it recession resistant and positioned to succeed in this uncertain economy.
Unlike big-box retailers like Walmart, which invest in large stores, often in middle-class areas, Dollar General takes a different approach. The company keeps prices as low as possible through a no-frills shopping experience, often locating its stores in rural areas or underserved communities where the costs of land and labor are lower. 
Image source: Getty Images.
According to CEO Todd Vasos, 65% of Dollar General's locations also lack adequate healthcare services. And although the plan is still in its early stages, Dollar General sees pharmaceutical products and services as a potential opportunity for growth and diversification. So this is something investors should watch closely.
As of March, management expects diluted EPS growth to be in the range of 4% to 6%, which is lower than the analysts expectation of 6.6%. But while Wall Street may be pessimistic about Dollar General in the near term, its long-term prospects remain sound -- especially as a hedge against economic uncertainty as possible recession. It's valuation is also attractive.
 With a forward P/E multiple of 19.5, the stock is slightly cheaper than the S&P 500 average. the low valuation adds another layer of safety to an already-resilient company. 
Nvidia and Dollar General are both potentially good places to put a $300 investment. But they serve different investment strategies. With its somewhat volatile revenue streams and high valuation, Nvidia stock is a higher risk/higher reward pick. On the other hand, Dollar General probably won't grow as fast, but it offers more stability.
10 stocks we like better than NvidiaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Nvidia wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Will Ebiefung has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Apple, Nvidia, and Walmart. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.