March 08, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Parkev Tatevosian for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


There are several likely reasons that have attracted Warren Buffett to Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN), Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL), and Mastercard (NYSE: MA) stocks. The three companies are among the leaders in their respective fields. This video will highlight which one of these three Warren Buffett stocks is the best one to buy now.
*Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of March 5, 2023. The video was published on March 7, 2023.


10 stocks we like better than Amazon.comWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Amazon.com wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Parkev Tatevosian, CFA has positions in Apple and Mastercard. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com, Apple, Berkshire Hathaway, and Mastercard. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2025 $370 calls on Mastercard, long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple, short January 2025 $380 calls on Mastercard, and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Parkev Tatevosian is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through fool.com/parkev, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.