March 08, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Small-Cap Growth Investor model based on the published strategy of Motley Fool. This strategy looks for small cap growth stocks with solid fundamentals and strong price performance.
ACNB CORPORATION (ACNB) is a small-cap value stock in the Money Center Banks industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 63% to 76% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: ACNB Corporation is a financial holding company. The Company's banking operations are conducted through its operating subsidiary, ACNB Bank (the Bank), and offers a range of property and casualty, life and health insurance to both commercial and individual clients through its subsidiary, ACNB Insurance Services, Inc. Its ACNB Insurance Services, Inc. is a full-service insurance agency based in Westminster, which offers a range of property, casualty, health, life and disability insurance serving personal and commercial clients. The Bank engages in full-service commercial and consumer banking and wealth management services, including trust and retail brokerage, through approximately 21 community banking office locations in Adams, Cumberland, Franklin, and York Counties, Pennsylvania. The Bank's service delivery channels for its customers also include the automated teller machine (ATM) network, customer contact center, and online, telephone and mobile Banking.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of ACNB CORPORATION
ACNB Guru Analysis
ACNB Fundamental Analysis
ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (ETD) is a small-cap value stock in the Furniture & Fixtures industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 63% to 76% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. is an interior design company, which operates as a manufacturer and retailer in the home furnishings marketplace. The Company provides complimentary interior design services to its clients and sells a range of home furnishing products through a retail network of design centers located throughout the United States and abroad, as well as online at ethanallen.com. The Company has two reportable segments: Wholesale and Retail. The Wholesale segment is principally involved in the development of the Ethan Allen brand and encompasses all aspects of design, manufacturing, sourcing, marketing, sale, and distribution of its range of home furnishings and accents. The Retail segment sells home furnishings and accents to clients through a network of Company-operated design centers. The Company operates approximately 139 retail design centers with 135 located in the United States and four in Canada.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC
ETD Guru Analysis
ETD Fundamental Analysis
GAMBLING.COM GROUP LTD (GAMB) is a small-cap growth stock in the Recreational Activities industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 45% to 72% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Gambling.com Group Limited is a performance marketing company. The Company is a provider of digital marketing services active in the online gambling industry. Its principal focus is on iGaming and sports betting. Through its technology platform, it publishes a portfolio of branded Websites, including Gambling.com, Bookies.com, RotoWire.com, and BonusFinder.com. The Company tailors each of its Websites to different user interests and markets by producing original content relating to online gambling and fantasy sports, such as news, odds, statistics, product reviews and product comparisons of locally available online gambling services. It provides business-to-business (B2B), digital marketing services to online gambling operators. It also monetizes its Websites through business-to-consumer (B2C) fantasy sports data subscriptions and sells data syndication to B2B clients. The Company refers online gamblers to online gambling operators.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of GAMBLING.COM GROUP LTD
GAMB Guru Analysis
GAMB Fundamental Analysis
WISDOMTREE INC (WT) is a small-cap growth stock in the Investment Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 59% to 72% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: WisdomTree, Inc., formerly WisdomTree Investments, Inc., is a global financial creator. The Company offers a well-diversified suite of exchange-traded products (ETPs) and exchange-traded products (ETPs) models and solutions. It develops digital products and structures, including digital funds and tokenized assets, as well as its blockchain-native digital wallet, WisdomTree Prime. Its WisdomTree Prime digital wallet is built on blockchain, that lets to spend, save, transfer, send, and invest digital assets like bitcoin, United States dollar tokens, gold tokens, and more. The Company provides a range of undertakings for the collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) exchange traded funds (ETFs) covering commodities, foreign exchange, equities, fixed income, digital assets. The Company has launched Modern Alpha, which combines the active management with the benefits of passive management to offer investors cost-effective funds that are built for performance.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of WISDOMTREE INC
WT Guru Analysis
WT Fundamental Analysis
FIDELITY D&D BANCORP INC (FDBC) is a small-cap value stock in the Money Center Banks industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 45% to 72% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Fidelity D & D Bancorp, Inc. is a bank holding company, whose state chartered commercial bank subsidiary is The Fidelity Deposit and Discount Bank (the Bank). The Bank has offered a full range of traditional banking services. The Bank has a personal and corporate trust department and also provides alternative financial and insurance products with asset management services. The Bank's investment securities classified into three categories: trading, available-for-sale (AFS) or held-to-maturity (HTM). The Banks service area is comprised of the Borough of Dunmore and the surrounding communities within Lackawanna and Luzerne counties in Northeastern Pennsylvania and Northampton County in Eastern Pennsylvania. The Company and the Bank operates approximately 23 full-service banking offices, of which 12 are owned and 11 are leased.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of FIDELITY D&D BANCORP INC
FDBC Guru Analysis
FDBC Fundamental Analysis
SILVERCREST ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP INC (SAMG) is a small-cap value stock in the Investment Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Motley Fool changed from 56% to 83% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Silvercrest Asset Management Group Inc. is a full-service wealth management company that is focused on providing financial advisory and related family office services to high-net-worth individuals and institutional investors. The Company offers a suite of complementary and customized family office services for families seeking oversight of their financial affairs. The Company views its operations as comprising one operating segment, the investment management industry. The Company provides a range of administrative services to the management of certain of its company's funds of funds and other investment funds collectively, the Silvercrest Funds. It also provides a range of family office services to some of its clients, including philanthropic, estate and wealth planning services, tax planning and preparation, financial statement, bill paying and record keeping services, bank loan arrangement and payment services and property and casualty insurance review.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of SILVERCREST ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP INC
SAMG Guru Analysis
SAMG Fundamental Analysis
Motley Fool Portfolio
About Motley Fool: Brothers David and Tom Gardner often wear funny hats in public appearances, but they're hardly fools -- at least not the kind whose advice you should readily dismiss. The Gardners are the founders of the popular Motley Fool web site, which offers frank and often irreverent commentary on investing, the stock market, and personal finance. The Gardners' "Fool" really is a multi-media endeavor, offering not only its web content but also several books written by the brothers, a weekly syndicated newspaper column, and subscription newsletter services.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.