March 07, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
There's an onerous tax that parents the world over pay for their kids' happiness -- one that originates in Billund, Denmark.
Lego's parent company reported its 2022 earnings on Tuesday, revealing a 17% rise in revenue and a 4% rise in profits. CEO Niels Christiansen said despite consumers feeling the pinch, there was plenty of demand for big, complicated sets. Turns out affordable luxury looks like a Lego Death Star.
There appear to have been a few key elements building up Lego's fortunes last year, most notably an expanded physical presence in China. Lego opened 155 brick-and-mortar shops (with extra bricks) last year, and half of them were in China. Christiansen said the foot traffic to physical shops had even begun to exceed 2019 levels.
While 4% profit growth might not seem huge -- and way down from the 31% profit growth Lego chalked up for 2021 -- it's still an impressive achievement, especially when you look at its rivals:
Collecting Dust: Toys on the more collectible end of the spectrum -- i.e. ones you don't actually get to play with -- have also fallen on hard times. Funko Pop, the company that makes pop-culture icons from Batman to Bob Ross into bobble-head toys, announced on Sunday it's got a crippling surplus inventory problem. The company had to rent extra warehouse space last year to store the pile-up of dolls and now plans to throw $30 to $36 million worth of its figurines in the garbage. Think Toy Story 3 without the deus ex machina...
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.