March 07, 2023 — 06:49 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Not for the first time this year, Costco Wholesale (NASDAQ: COST) did better than the broader stock market on Tuesday. Shares of the big retailer eked out a 0.4% gain on a day when many other titles tanked notably, and the S&P 500 index was dragged down by 1.5%. An analyst's recommendation upgrade was a major factor in helping Costco stock defy gravity.
The upgrading party was Northcoast Research's Chuck Cerankosky. Before market open on Tuesday, he changed his recommendation for the better; Costco is now a buy, according to him, where previously it was merely a hold.
In a fresh research note on the popular retailer, Cerankosky said that its second-quarter results not only topped expectations, it positioned the company for a solid second half of its current fiscal year despite macroeconomic concerns that haven't entirely faded from investor consciousness. 
The analyst wrote the following:
Costco has been here before. At these times, its strong value proposition in consumables -- from food to pharmacy and HBC to household supplies to gasoline -- not only allows it to retain its many loyal members but attract new ones.
Cerankosky also wrote glowingly of Costco's "impeccable" balance sheet, which gives the company the financial muscle to pay an anticipated special dividend, plus a potentially quite large share-repurchase program. The prognosticator sees both occurring in the next one to two years; he speculated that a potential special dividend could amount to $10 per share at a minimum.
10 stocks we like better than Costco WholesaleWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Costco Wholesale wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Costco Wholesale. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.