March 07, 2023 — 06:42 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


On quite a down Tuesday for the stock market, both Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN) and Uber (NYSE: UBER) managed to do better than most titles. The former traded essentially flat across the day, while the latter inched up in price by almost 1%. A glowing report from an influential investment bank helped the two stocks rise above the gloom.
No less an institution than Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS) tapped Amazon and Uber to head its new list of top internet stock picks. Other familiar tech names making the lineup were Meta Platforms and Google parent Alphabet. 
Amazon was Goldman's No. 1 pick for the remainder of this year. Uber made the list despite a nearly 40% rise in share price year to date. The investment bank still thinks the stock has room to run, as it has "produced progress on profit initiatives with stable end demand trends & overall industry competitive intensity."
All four stocks were victims of the tech sector freeze that made most of 2022 frosty for many investors. More than a few have staged a rebound since then, as fears of macroeconomic headwinds have eased and the market plows into stocks now considered bargains.
What's also helping Amazon is that the company continues to squeeze out growth. Amazon's fourth-quarter results, announced early last month, weren't overly impressive, yet the company managed to improve its revenue by 9% on a year-over-year basis.  
As for Uber, certain recent developments have broken the rideshare king's way. Tuesday morning, for instance, it was reported that New York City's labor and consumer agency has significantly scaled back its proposed minimum wage for app-based food delivery workers. The agency had hoped to set that rate at $23.82 per hour by 2025; this has been trimmed to $19.96.
10 stocks we like better than Amazon.comWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Amazon.com wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Eric Volkman has positions in Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Amazon.com, Goldman Sachs Group, Meta Platforms, and Uber Technologies. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.