March 07, 2023 — 03:32 pm EST

      Written by
                        Jim Halley for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Ambrx BioPharma (NYSE: AMAM) fell 28.1% for the day as of late Tuesday afternoon. The clinical-stage biotech announced Monday that it was moving from trading on the New York Stock Exchange to the Nasdaq Stock Market, effective March 16.
When the company made the announcement, the stock nearly doubled on Monday, going from $6.43 at the open to closing at $12.54. The move downward on Tuesday is more of a modulation from what is seen as an overreaction to the announcement. The stock is up 98% over the past year and more than 308% so far in 2023.
The company focuses on oncology therapies through the use of antibody drug conjugates and other engineered therapies to stimulate the immune system. Looking at that focus, it better fits the Nasdaq's image as the exchange for cutting-edge growth companies. It's also significantly cheaper for companies to list on the Nasdaq.
Interestingly, on Nov. 23, the NYSE notified Ambrx that the company was in danger of being delisted after its shares fell below $1 for 30 consecutive days on Nov. 23. However, the stock had bounced back considerably since then.
There's a lot of risk involved with the stock. The company's lead therapy is ARX788, which had promising phase 2 trial results against metastatic breast cancer patients who had previously been treated by the chemotherapies Enhertu and Kadcyla.  The drug is also being tested against other cancers, and the company said it could have the potential of $1 billion in peak annual sales.
Ambrx is partnering with Chinese pharmaceutical company NovoCodex Biopharmaceuticals on the drug. In October, the company said it was forming the partnership to enable it to continue operations through 2025. 
10 stocks we like better than Ambrx BiopharmaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Ambrx Biopharma wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jim Halley has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.