March 07, 2023 — 12:26 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


It's been a rough year for Take-Two Interactive (NASDAQ: TTWO), whose stock is down 25.9% in the last 12 months. But shares had a nice recovery on Tuesday, climbing as much as 3.2% in trading before falling back to a 1.1% gain at 11:30 a.m. ET.
Last week, shares jumped on gossip that Sony (NYSE: SONY) might be interested in buying the video game company. While that's still a rumor, there was some positive news on the buyout front when it was reported that the European Union appears willing to clear Microsoft's (NASDAQ: MSFT) acquisition of Activision Blizzard (NASDAQ: ATVI).
If the Microsoft/Activision Blizzard deal does go through, it could pave the way for other mergers in gaming. Take-Two Interactive would be a likely target, and even a small reduction in regulatory pushback would be good news.
Consolidation in the gaming industry has been growing for years as Sony and Microsoft have bought up studios to add to their portfolios. But some major independent studios like Take-Two Interactive and Activision Blizzard have remained independent. That will change if the Activision Blizzard deal goes through, and more dominoes could topple.
I don't like speculating on buyouts because if they don't happen, a stock can fall. In this case, some sort of buyout seems inevitable, but even if that's true, I'm not buying a stock on speculation. So I'll leave today's move alone for now.
10 stocks we like better than Take-Two Interactive SoftwareWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Take-Two Interactive Software wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Activision Blizzard, Microsoft, and Take-Two Interactive Software. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.