March 07, 2023 — 11:26 am EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Vistra (NYSE: VST) continue to power higher today after the independent utility operator announced it was acquiring a nuclear power company for $3 billion. 
After the announcement yesterday that it was buying Energy Harbor, the second-largest nuclear power company, Vistra's stock shot 14% higher to close at $24.38 per share. It was trading up another 10.7% at 10:49 a.m. ET in morning trading Tuesday, for a better-than-26% total gain.
Image source: Getty Images.
Vistra, which operates in Texas, is buying Ohio-based Energy Harbor and will combine it with its own operations to form Vistra Vision, which will have four nuclear power plants with 6,400 megawatts of power. Because of the purchase, Energy Harbor's two biggest shareholders, asset management firms Avenue Capital Group and Nuveen, will gain a 15% stake in Vistra.
Energy Harbor was previously known as FirstEnergy Solutions, a subsidiary of FirstEnergy (NYSE: FE), and declared bankruptcy in 2018 before rebranding itself as Energy Harbor. It received a $1 billion bailout from Ohio but became embroiled in a corruption scandal involving the state legislature's passage of the bailout, which ended up getting repealed in 2021.
Once the transaction is completed, Vistra Vision will have a clean-energy portfolio of about 7,800 megawatts and serve approximately 5 million customers. It will also have access to a pipeline of about 1,100 megawatts of additional renewables projects.
10 stocks we like better than VistraWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Vistra wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.