March 07, 2023 — 10:23 am EST

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, Billy Duberstein for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The chiplet boom sweeping the semiconductor industry might create tailwinds for BE Semiconductor (OTC: BESIY), a company focused on advanced packaging solutions for advanced nodes. Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ: AMD) investors should know how important this technology is for future products. Check out the short video to learn what semiconductor investors Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, and Billy Duberstein had to say. Also, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of March 2, 2023. The video was published on March 3, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Be Semiconductor IndustriesWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Be Semiconductor Industries wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Billy Duberstein has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Jose Najarro has positions in Advanced Micro Devices. Nicholas Rossolillo has positions in Advanced Micro Devices. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Advanced Micro Devices. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.