March 07, 2023 — 08:57 am EST

      Written by
                        Matthew DiLallo for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Medical Properties Trust (NYSE: MPW) tumbled 20.5% in February, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence. Weighing on the real estate investment trust (REIT) were its fourth-quarter results and outlook for the coming year. 
Last month started positively for Medical Properties Trust. One of the healthcare REIT's top tenants, Steward Health Care System, agreed to sell its Utah operations to CommonSpirit Health for $1.2 billion. That deal gave Steward a cash infusion, increasing its ability to pay rent on other properties leased from Medical Properties Trust. Meanwhile, the deal helps further diversify the healthcare REIT's tenant base by adding the high-quality CommonSpirit Health to its rent roll. 
While Steward's financial foundation has strengthened recently, Prospect Medical's, another major tenant, has worsened. That led Medical Properties Trust to record a real estate impairment of roughly $171 million in the fourth quarter related to four properties leased to that company in Pennsylvania. The REIT also wrote off about $112 million of unbilled rent. 
This tenant issue will impact the company's financial results this year. Medical Properties Trust guided that its normalized funds from operations (FFO) will range between $1.50 and $1.65 per share this year. That's down significantly from $1.82 per share last year and below the analyst consensus estimate that normalized FFO would be $1.74 per share. That could impact the company's ability to maintain its high-yielding dividend this year. 
At the high end, the forecast represents the company's base case that it will start recognizing revenue from Prospect during the second half of the year. Meanwhile, the low end assumes it won't collect rent from those facilities this year. However, the company expects to recover the rent and all the value of the real estate over the next 12 to 18 months as Prospect monetizes its managed care business and Medical Properties sells the Pennsylvania facilities. 
The company plans to reallocate the proceeds from the eventual sale of Prospect's Pennsylvania hospitals into new investments. Medical Properties Trust had already agreed to sell three hospitals leased to Prospect in Connecticut for $457 million. It expects that deal to close later this year, giving it the capital to recycle into new opportunities as they arise. 
Medical Properties Trust continues to be plagued by tenant issues. While Steward's finances have improved, Prospect's Pennsylvania business has deteriorated. Because of that, the company might be unable to pay rent this year. That could impact Medical Properties' ability to maintain its high-yielding dividend. The REIT might need to reduce its payment, enabling it to retain additional cash to bolster its liquidity until Prospect resolves its issues.
10 stocks we like better than Medical Properties TrustWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Medical Properties Trust wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Matthew DiLallo has positions in Medical Properties Trust and has the following options: short April 2023 $9 puts on Medical Properties Trust. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.