March 07, 2023 — 08:40 am EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of iQiyi (NASDAQ: IQ) jumped 15.4% in February, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, after the Chinese streaming video platform reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, building on a stronger performance that had been building up for most of the year.
iQiyi, which is seen as China's version of Netflix, said revenue came in at $1.1 billion and generated a profit of $0.35 per share, or $0.98 per share on an adjusted basis. Analyst Daniel Chen at J.P. Morgan was surprised by the robust growth iQiyi produced, noting adjusted earnings were 176% more than what it had forecast. Chen subsequently raised the one-year price target on the stock to $11 per share from $8 per share.
Image source: Getty Images.
Like Netflix, the Chinese streamer has had to produce more content in-house to maintain parity with the competition and the quality of its programming has reportedly been very good, helping iQiyi grow its subscriber base. The streaming video service said the average daily number of total subscribing members for the quarter jumped 15% to 111.6 million and was more than 10% higher than the number it had in the third quarter. Member services revenue was the highest it's ever been.
Yet also like numerous U.S. businesses, iQiyi saw a tougher landscape in advertising, with ad revenue dropping 7% for the period to $225.2 million, which it blamed on "the challenging macroeconomic environment."
Wall Street is looking for iQiyi's strong performance to continue into the current year and many analysts raised their price target on its stock. Bank of America nearly doubled its target to $9 per share from $4.70 per share; Goldman Sachs raised it to a buy rating with a $10-per-share target, pointing to its partnership with TikTok equivalent Douyin as a game changer for the company; and HSBC raised its target price to $8 per share from $5 per share, though it kept a hold rating on the stock due to dilution concerns.
The dilution concerns might not be unwarranted. iQiyi immediately followed up its earnings report with an announcement that it was raising $600 million in through a convertible bond offering that will be used to pay off debt.
10 stocks we like better than iQIYIWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and iQIYI wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
HSBC Holdings is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America, Goldman Sachs Group, JPMorgan Chase, and Netflix. The Motley Fool recommends HSBC Holdings and iQIYI. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.