March 07, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Price/Sales Investor model based on the published strategy of Kenneth Fisher. This value strategy rewards stocks with low P/S ratios, long-term profit growth, strong free cash flow and consistent profit margins.
GERDAU SA (ADR) (GGB) is a mid-cap value stock in the Iron & Steel industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Kenneth Fisher changed from 90% to 100% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Gerdau SA is a Brazil-based manufacturer of steel products. The Company is engaged in the production and commercialization of steel products in general, through its mills located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, the United States, Mexico, Peru, the Dominican Republic, Uruguay and Venezuela. The Firm's product portfolio includes crude steel; finished products for the construction industry, such as rebar, wire-rods, structural shapes, hot-rolled coils and heavy plates; finished industrial products, such as commercial rolled-steel bars, light profiles and wires; agricultural products, such as stakes, smooth wire and barbed-wire; and special steel items. The Company's activities include also operations of iron ore mines located in the state of Minas Gerais.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of GERDAU SA (ADR)
GGB Guru Analysis
GGB Fundamental Analysis
ANGIODYNAMICS, INC. (ANGO) is a small-cap value stock in the Medical Equipment & Supplies industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Kenneth Fisher changed from 40% to 60% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: AngioDynamics, Inc. is a medical technology company. The Company is focused on restoring healthy blood flow in the body's vascular system, expanding cancer treatment options. It operates through two segments, namely Med Tech and Med Device. Its products offerings fall within three global business units: Endovascular Therapies (VIT), Oncology/Surgery (OS) and Vascular Access (VA). Its products include Auryon, Thrombectomy, Peripheral Products (Core), BioFlo, Midlines, Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter (PICC), C3 Wave PICC tip location system, Ports, Dialysis Products, Venous Insufficiency, Microwave Ablation, Radiofrequency Ablation, BioSentry Tract Sealant System, IsoLoc Endorectal Balloon and Alatus Vaginal Balloon Packing System. Its Thrombus Management portfolio includes the AlphaVac System, AngioVac venous drainage system, Thrombolytic catheters and NanoKnife. Its Peripheral Products (Core) include Angiographic Products and Accessories, Drainage Products and Micro Access Kits.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of ANGIODYNAMICS, INC.
ANGO Guru Analysis
ANGO Fundamental Analysis
OOMA INC (OOMA) is a small-cap value stock in the Communications Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Kenneth Fisher changed from 58% to 70% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Ooma, Inc. provides communications services and related technologies to the businesses of all sizes and residential customers through a smart cloud-based software as a service platform. For businesses, the Company delivers advanced voice and collaboration features, including messaging, intelligent virtual attendants and video conferencing. For consumers, the Company residential phone service provides PureVoice high-definition voice quality, advanced functionality and integration with mobile devices. The Company's solutions include Ooma Business, Ooma Office, Ooma Enterprise and Ooma AirDial. The Company offers a range of solutions to fit each business needs, along with personalized support to resolve any issues in deploying and maintaining Ooma services. It refers to Ooma Office and Ooma Enterprise collectively as Ooma Business. Ooma Office is a cloud-based multi-user communications system for small and medium-sized businesses designed to manage communications in and out of the office.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of OOMA INC
OOMA Guru Analysis
OOMA Fundamental Analysis
Kenneth Fisher Portfolio
About Kenneth Fisher: The son of Philip Fisher, who is considered the "Father of Growth Investing", Kenneth Fisher is a money manager, bestselling author, and longtime Forbes columnist. The younger Fisher wowed Wall Street in the mid-1980s when his book Super Stocks first popularized the idea of using the price/sales ratio (PSR) as a means of identifying attractive stocks. According to his alma mater, Humboldt State University, Fisher is also one of the world's foremost experts on 19th century logging. Appropriately, Fisher's firm, Fisher Investments, is located in a lush forest preserve in Woodside, California, where the contrarian-minded Fisher says he and his employees can get away from Wall Street groupthink.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.