March 07, 2023 — 06:46 am EST

      Written by
                        Jeremy Bowman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of C3.ai (NYSE: AI) finished February up 14% in volatile trading, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence.
The software-as-a-service stock that focuses on artificial intelligence (AI) benefited from the increasing attention around AI after Microsoft announced its own ChatGPT-powered Bing search engine and Alphabet revealed its own ChatGPT competitor, Bard AI.
As one of the few pure-play AI stocks, C3.ai got a boost from the hype around AI, though investors also seemed to question the stock's valuation as shares pulled back after the spike on the Microsoft news.
As the chart shows, the stock was all over the map over the course of February. 

AI data by YCharts
C3.ai jumped on Feb. 2 as D.A. Davidson initiated coverage on the stock with a buy rating, and analyst Gil Luria said the company is "a truly scarce asset in a critical software arena." He also called generative AI a "killer app" for artificial intelligence and gave the stock a price target of $30.
The artificial intelligence stock continued to gain over the next few days in anticipation of the Microsoft and Alphabet announcements, peaking on Feb. 6 at $30.92 a share before some of the air seemed to get let out of the hype bubble.
Later in the month, C3.ai announced it was expanding its strategic partnership with Amazon Web Services, with the C3.ai platform being co-sold with AWS. Additionally, C3.ai's application suite is now available on AWS marketplace. 
C3.ai got another boost early in March after it reported better-than-expected results in its third-quarter earnings report.
Revenue actually fell 4.4% to $66.7 million, but that beat analyst estimates at $64.3 million. Its bottom-line result improved from an adjusted per-share loss of $0.07 to $0.06, which was well ahead of the consensus at a per-share loss of $0.22. 
CEO Thomas Siebel also said the company was seeing increased interest in C3.ai solutions and that overall business sentiment is improving. 
On March 6, short-seller Kerrisdale Capital said it was short C3.ai, saying that it's a misconception that the company benefits from the excitement around ChatGPT. It also noted C3.ai's poor customer traction, cash burn, customer concentration, and weak revenue growth. 
Indeed, the stock is expensive, but it's too early to write off C3.ai. The stock has a lot to prove with a price-to-sales ratio around 15, and some of the recent gains are due to ChatGPT-related hype. However, the company may be able to use that to its advantage, especially since it's launched its new generative AI product suite, which includes search functionality across an enterprise's data.
Investors will want to pay attention to how that new product does.
10 stocks we like better than C3.aiWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and C3.ai wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Jeremy Bowman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet and Microsoft. The Motley Fool recommends C3.ai. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.