March 06, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
The long-simmering US-Mexico corn conflict is about to pop.
The Biden administration plans to request a sit down with its neighbor to the South over genetically modified corn, sources told Bloomberg Monday. Expect conversations to get plenty salty unless one of the parties brings some butter.
In November, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador announced the country would phase out all GMO corn by 2024, citing health and farming concerns. He's since walked back a related deadline for animal feed and industrial use, but the prohibition on GMO corn for human consumption is still set for the start of next year. That decision doesn't sit well with the US government and agriculture industry because Mexico is the second-largest importer of American corn and 90% of American corn is genetically modified.
"Any interruption to [corn export] shipments will severely affect our farmers and the state's economy, and have dire economic consequences for the entire Corn Belt," Iowa senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Joni Ernst wrote in a letter to US Trade Representative Katherine Tai.
Above all else, corn is probably the most important staple in Mexican cuisine, but officials say the country can sustain itself:
Energy Talks?: On top of the corn issues, the US and Canada are also fed up with Mexico's energy policies. In July, the two countries argued that Mexico was favoring its own government-operated utilities – Petroleos Mexicanos and Comision Federal de Electricidad – and discriminating against US and Canada-owned companies. Famous for his cool, aloof responses, Lopez Obrador said Mexico is not violating any agreements and that "nothing is going to happen," which has so far turned out to be true. During a summit where President Joe Biden, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Lopez Obrador were supposed to discuss the issue, it never came up.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.