March 06, 2023 — 04:35 pm EST

      Written by
                        Anders Bylund for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of cybersecurity expert Fortinet (NASDAQ: FTNT) rose 13.6% in February 2023, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. The company posted strong earnings and a bullish slate of guidance targets early in the month. The stock gained 11% that day and continued to bubble higher as investors digested the robust report.
Fortinet's fourth-quarter sales stopped at $1.28 billion, 33% above the year-ago reading. Adjusted earnings increased by 76% to $0.44 per diluted share. The top-line result was in line with Wall Street's expectations, but the bottom-line profits beat the consensus analyst view by 13%.
Looking ahead, Fortinet's management set up full-year earnings and revenue targets just above the current Street views.
This unique security specialist combines a rapidly growing market with industry-leading profit margins. Fortinet offers a flexible portfolio of security tools, from threat-scanning firewalls and network automation tools to hardened login management systems and client-side security software.
Management sees this top-to-bottom tool kit as a crucial selling point. They referred to "integrated" security systems 15 times in this earnings call.
In a statement, CEO Ken Xie said:
We continue to gain market share in the service security industry with customers increasingly recognizing how Fortinet integration and a single-platform approach to security delivers a low total cost of ownership and a greater return on investment than competing solutions. 
I'm impressed by Fortinet's muscular sales growth, especially against the background of tight infrastructure budgets in this inflation-burdened economy. Network security is one of those essential functions you can't scale down even in a challenging market. On top of that, it's not easy to find another cybersecurity provider that can match Fortinet's sturdy profit margins.
So it's no surprise to see Fortinet's stock outperforming the market in February, in 2023 year to date, and in the long run. The stock isn't cheap at 10.6 times trailing sales and 57 times earnings, but I would argue that it deserves a premium price. Take a closer look before adding Fortinet to your own portfolio, but I think you'll like what you see.
10 stocks we like better than FortinetWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Fortinet wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Anders Bylund has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Fortinet. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.