March 06, 2023 — 02:57 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In afternoon trading on Monday, Technology & Communications stocks are the best performing sector, up 0.1%.  Within that group, Enphase Energy Inc. (Symbol: ENPH) and Lumen Technologies Inc (Symbol: LUMN) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 4.8% and 4.7%, respectively.  Among technology ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Technology Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLK), which is up 0.8% on the day, and up 14.66% year-to-date.  Enphase Energy Inc., meanwhile, is down 10.14% year-to-date, and Lumen Technologies Inc, is down 38.18% year-to-date.  ENPH makes up approximately 0.3% of the underlying holdings of XLK.


The next best performing sector is the Utilities sector, not showing much of a loss.  Among large Utilities stocks, NRG Energy Inc (Symbol: NRG) and PG&E Corp (Symbol: PCG) are the most notable, showing a gain of 2.2% and 1.8%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Utilities stocks is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLU), which is up 0.2% in midday trading, and down 5.87% on a year-to-date basis.  NRG Energy Inc, meanwhile, is up 8.83% year-to-date, and PG&E Corp is up 6.19% year-to-date.  Combined, NRG and PCG make up approximately 3.5% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Monday.  As you can see, one sector is up on the day, while six sectors are down.




10 ETFs With Stocks That Insiders Are Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.