March 06, 2023 — 02:57 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


The worst performing sector as of midday Monday is the Materials sector, showing a 1.7% loss.  Within that group, Mohawk Industries, Inc. (Symbol: MHK) and Steel Dynamics Inc. (Symbol: STLD) are two of the day's laggards, showing a loss of 4.0% and 3.5%, respectively.  Among the high volume ETFs, one ETF closely following materials stocks is the Materials Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLB), which is down 1.5% on the day, and up 7.37% year-to-date.  Mohawk Industries, Inc., meanwhile, is down 4.37% year-to-date, and Steel Dynamics Inc. is up 37.89% year-to-date.  STLD makes up approximately 2.4% of the underlying holdings of XLB.


The next worst performing sector is the Energy sector, showing a 0.7% loss.  Among large Energy stocks, EQT Corp (Symbol: EQT) and Coterra Energy Inc (Symbol: CTRA) are the most notable, showing a loss of 3.8% and 2.5%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Energy stocks is the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE), which is down 0.1% in midday trading, and up 3.29% on a year-to-date basis.  EQT Corp, meanwhile, is up 4.32% year-to-date, and Coterra Energy Inc is up 10.69% year-to-date.  Combined, EQT and CTRA make up approximately 2.3% of the underlying holdings of XLE.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Monday.  As you can see, one sector is up on the day, while six sectors are down.




10 ETFs With Stocks That Insiders Are Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.