March 06, 2023 — 01:18 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of solar energy company Enphase Energy (NASDAQ: ENPH) jumped as much as 6.1% in trading on Monday as investors jumped back into renewable energy stocks. Shares of the stock held up well and are up 5.2% at 12:30 p.m. ET. 
Enphase has been on a growth tear, and that trend may not stop anytime soon. Electricity rates are high in Europe, and California's Net Energy Metering 3.0 (NEM 3.0) goes into effect next month. That will reduce the value utilities pay homeowners for solar, making it more cost-effective to install energy storage, which happens to be a product Enphase offers. 

ENPH Revenue (TTM) data by YCharts
What's a little odd about the move today is that natural gas prices, which are the most directly competitive with solar energy, are down 14% today in the U.S. Today's price action was in part a reversal of last week's gains and partly a reaction to milder weather, which reduces demand for natural gas in winter months. 
The market seems to think growing demand for rooftop solar because of NEM 3.0 and rising electricity prices will be a positive for Enphase Energy. 
As much as I like the operating trends for Enphase Energy, the stock has gotten extremely expensive. You can see in the chart that shares trade for 14 times sales, an incredibly high price for any energy company. 

ENPH PS Ratio data by YCharts
It's this price premium that will keep me out of the stock today. But this is a great company, so if the price comes down, it's worth considering if you're interested in solar energy. 
10 stocks we like better than Enphase EnergyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Enphase Energy wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Enphase Energy. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.