March 06, 2023 — 12:22 pm EST

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of BridgeBio Pharma (NASDAQ: BBIO) were skyrocketing 61.2% higher as of 11:55 a.m. ET on Monday. The huge gain came after the company announced positive results from a patient cohort in a phase 2 clinical study evaluating infigratinib in treating children with achondroplasia, a genetic disorder that's the most common cause of short stature.
BridgeBio reported that the highest dose level (0.25 mg/kg once daily) of infigratinib achieved a statistically significant improvement in the mean change in baseline annualized height velocity (AHV). The company said that 80% of children at six months saw their AHV increase by at least 25%. The safety profile for infigratinib also looked good, with no adverse events evaluated as related to the treatment in the patient cohort for which results were announced today.
The spectacular gain for the biotech stock underscored just how good BridgeBio's clinical results were. Infigratinib could set the bar in terms of efficacy in treating achondroplasia. The disease affects around 55,000 people in the U.S. and Europe, including as many as 10,000 young children and adolescents.
BridgeBio has already begun to enroll children in a pivotal phase 3 clinical trial of infigratinib in treating achondroplasia. The drugmaker also plans to move forward with clinical studies evaluating the experimental therapy in treating hypochondroplasia, a condition that's closely related to achondroplasia. BridgeBio founder and CEO Neil Kumar stated that his company will explore the potential for the experimental drug in treating other skeletal dysplasias as well.
10 stocks we like better than BridgeBio PharmaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and BridgeBio Pharma wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Keith Speights has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.