March 06, 2023 — 07:10 am EST

      Written by
                        Neil Patel for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


There are a lot of different ways to invest in the stock market. A popular strategy is to focus on emerging, fast-growing disruptors that are innovating in expanding markets. While owning these types of companies can be risky and lead to heightened portfolio volatility, the prospective returns could be big. 
On the other end of the risk spectrum, another strategy is to try to own only some of the largest and most established businesses. This is a safer investing method that could still help you reach your financial goals. Here is why it might be a worthwhile strategy to invest in these so-called blue chip stocks. 
Image source: Getty Images.
Blue chip stocks are shares in companies that possess favorable traits like being an industry leader, providing products or services that are always in demand, a history of producing solid investor returns, and a history of paying increasing dividends. In other words, they have a proven track record of success and reliability. 
Legendary investor Warren Buffett and the conglomerate he leads, Berkshire Hathaway, focus on owning blue chip stocks as well. In fact, Berkshire Hathaway itself could be viewed as a blue chip, although it doesn't pay dividends. Simply owning the Omaha-based enterprise would've produced annualized returns of 666% over the past 20 years. That's not too shabby. 
But if we peek at Berkshire's public equities portfolio, which is valued at $334 billion (as of Dec. 31), we'll see that it is filled with blue chip names. The top five stocks in the portfolio are Apple, Bank of America, Chevron, American Express, and Coca-Cola. Combined, these companies have a market capitalization of $3.4 trillion.  
For investors who want to do something other than owning Berkshire Hathaway stock, and who don't have the time or the necessary skills to be able to analyze and pick individual stocks, there's another way to get exposure to blue chip businesses. By looking at exchange-traded funds (ETFs), like the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF (NYSEMKT: DIA), that own the constituents of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), you'll have access to 30 blue chip stocks, including Walt Disney, Visa, Home Depot, and Nike. While the DJIA is up only 39% over the past five years, perhaps more importantly, it was only down 11% in 2022. This compares quite favorably to the 19% and 33% declines of the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite Index, respectively, last year. 
Especially in an uncertain economic environment, one characterized by stubbornly elevated inflation, rising interest rates, and the possibility of a recession on the horizon, owning shares of established, mature, stable, and well-known businesses can provide some downside protection. Even better, this strategy could work wonders for your peace of mind, which is also an extremely important variable when it comes to investing. 
There's a high level of certainty that companies like JPMorgan Chase, McDonald's, and Walmart will still be around decades from now. They are resilient and reliable, and demand for what they offer to customers has shown to be durable through various economic cycles. 
Let's contrast this with some high-flying growth tech stocks. Carvana and Peloton, for example, were on top of the world during the depths of the coronavirus pandemic. But as the economy weakened and macro headwinds created challenges, these two businesses have struggled greatly. Even profitable companies in this more growth-oriented category, like Netflix and PayPal, are still experiencing their own set of struggles. 
Even for investors who like to venture toward the riskier end of the stock market spectrum, it might be a smart move to consider adding some blue chip names to your portfolio. 
10 stocks we like better than WalmartWhen our award-winning analyst team has an investing tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Walmart wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
American Express is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Neil Patel has positions in Berkshire Hathaway and Carvana. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple, Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway, Home Depot, JPMorgan Chase, Netflix, Nike, PayPal, Peloton Interactive, Visa, Walmart, and Walt Disney. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $145 calls on Walt Disney, long January 2024 $47.50 calls on Coca-Cola, long January 2025 $47.50 calls on Nike, long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple, short April 2023 $70 puts on PayPal, short January 2024 $155 calls on Walt Disney, and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.