March 06, 2023 — 05:02 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Millions of seniors today get a monthly benefit from Social Security. And while that benefit, ideally, will be only one of several retirement income sources you have, you may be motivated to get as much money from Social Security as you can.
In 2023, the average senior on Social Security collects $1,827 a month. But you may be eligible for a lot more money than that.
In fact, some seniors this year are looking at a monthly benefit of $4,555, which is the maximum Social Security will pay. Here's how to score a benefit that high.
Image source: Getty Images.
The Social Security Administration takes your 35 highest-paid years in the labor force into account when calculating your monthly benefit. To be eligible for $4,555 a month, you'll need to have worked for 35 years so that you won't have any $0s in your benefits calculation for missing years.
Did you know that there's a wage cap when it comes to Social Security taxes? Workers pay taxes on their earnings for Social Security purposes only up to a certain point, and that level varies from year to year. In 2023, the wage cap is $160,200, so income beyond that threshold isn't taxed. But to claim the maximum monthly Social Security benefit, your earnings must reach or exceed the wage cap for 35 years.
You're entitled to your complete monthly benefit based on your earnings history once you reach full retirement age, which is either 66, 67, or somewhere in between, depending on when you were born. Each year you delay filing past full retirement age, your benefits grow 8%. To snag the maximum monthly Social Security benefit, you must hold off on filing until age 70.
Collecting $4,555 from Social Security every month during retirement might seem nice. But for most seniors, it's unrealistic because many struggle to earn a high enough income to qualify for the maximum benefit.
If the monthly Social Security benefit you're eligible for isn't anywhere close to $4,555 but rather more in line with the current monthly average of $1,827, it doesn't mean you're doomed to a cash-strapped retirement. Building yourself a solid nest is a great way to compensate for getting less income from Social Security. And even if you've largely missed the boat there, you're not out of options.
For one thing, there's always part-time work in retirement. And the gig economy makes it easy to earn an income at a pace that works well for you. You could also look into monetizing your home, whether by renting out a finished basement or even a parking spot in your driveway. There are lots of ways to generate retirement income outside of Social Security, so even if your monthly benefit isn't as high as you'd like it to be, all is far from lost.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.