March 17, 2023 — 06:15 am EDT

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Spotify (NYSE: SPOT) is known as a leader in music streaming, but it's becoming much more than that. The company has moved into podcast and advertising and is now building out creator tools that could make it a social network for creators. Travis Hoium digs into the company's strategy change and upside in the video below.
*Stock prices used were end of day prices of March 15, 2023. The video was published on March 16, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Spotify TechnologyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Spotify Technology wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Travis Hoium has positions in Alphabet and Spotify Technology. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet and Spotify Technology. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.