March 05, 2023 — 06:06 am EST

      Written by
                        Jason Hall and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


EV upstarts Lucid Group (NASDAQ: LCID) and Rivian Automotive (NASDAQ: RIVN) have been painful investments over the past year. However, growing brand appeal and relatively strong balance sheets have both in decent shape, though they still have a lot to prove. How likely is it that the future for one -- or even both -- includes getting acquired? In this video, Fool.com contributors Jason Hall and Tyler Crowe explain why buying the brands might be appealing to a legacy automaker with money to spend, but the likely cost makes it unlikely right now. 
*Stock prices used were from the afternoon of Feb. 16, 2023. The video was published on March 5, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Rivian AutomotiveWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Rivian Automotive wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jason Hall has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Tyler Crowe has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jason Hall is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.