March 05, 2023 — 05:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Katie Brockman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Retirement requires loads of planning, and it's never too early to double-check that you're on the right track. If you wait too long to get your plans in order, you could be in trouble.
Exactly what you should be doing right now to prepare depends on your time line. When you're a decade away from retirement, there are a few important moves to make now to ensure you'll be ready when the time comes.
Asset allocation refers to how your investments are divided within your portfolio -- specifically, how much of your portfolio is allocated to stocks versus bonds.
Image source: Getty Images.
As you get closer to retirement, your asset allocation should shift to become more conservative. If you're investing all your money in stocks and the market crashes just before you retire, that could throw a wrench in your plans.
A general rule of thumb is to subtract your age from 110, and the result is the percentage of your portfolio allocated to stocks. So, for example, if you're 50 years old, this guideline would suggest allocating around 60% of your portfolio to stocks and 40% to bonds.
The right asset allocation for you will also depend on your risk tolerance. Bonds generally experience lower returns than stocks, but they're less affected by market volatility. If you're especially risk-averse, you may want your portfolio to lean more conservative to be safe.
For millions of retirees, Social Security is a substantial source of income. When you know approximately how much you can expect to receive in benefits, it will be easier to determine whether your savings are on track.
To check your future benefit amount, you'll first need to create a mySocialSecurity account online, if you haven't done so already. From there, you can check your statements for an estimate of your benefits based on your real earnings throughout your career.
Keep in mind that over the next decade, this number could change -- especially if your income changes dramatically between now and retirement.
Also, this estimate is the amount you'll receive if you file at your full retirement age. If you plan to begin claiming benefits before or after that age, it will affect how much you'll collect each month.
You won't become eligible for Medicare until age 65, so if you're expecting to retire before that, you'll need a backup plan in place. A few options include:
While it may be unrealistic to accurately budget for health insurance when you're 10 years from retirement, it's still wise to keep these costs on your radar so they don't take you by surprise.
Planning for retirement can be challenging, as there are countless factors to consider. But by preparing as much as possible now, you can set yourself up for a more comfortable retirement down the road.
10 stocks we like better than WalmartWhen our award-winning analyst team has an investing tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Walmart wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.