March 04, 2023 — 11:45 pm EST

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


President Joe Biden has been abundantly clear that he doesn't want any cuts to Social Security. In his State of the Union address in February, the president stated, "If anyone tries to cut Social Security, I will stop them."
But that doesn't mean Biden isn't open to revising the popular federal program in ways that don't reduce benefit payments. It's quite possible that the president could soon push for a huge Social Security change.
Image source: Getty Images.
The Washington Post reported on Feb. 23 that President Biden met privately with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). The main topic discussed was Social Security. 
Sanders, along with Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and other Democrats, want to raise the cap on the payroll tax that helps fund Social Security. Currently, annual income above $160,200 isn't subject to this payroll tax. Sanders has proposed also taxing all income above $250,000.
It appears that Biden could be on board with this increase to the payroll tax cap. In his 2020 presidential campaign, he proposed something similar. However, instead of applying a threshold of $250,000, Biden's plan was to subject income above $400,000 to the payroll tax.
The president hinted that he's agreeable with some level of higher taxes in his State of the Union address with a reference to "making the wealthy pay their fair share." However, Biden has also committed on multiple occasions to not increasing taxes on Americans with household income below $400,000. If he went along with Sanders' Social Security plan, he would have to renege on that pledge. 
Sen. Sanders doesn't just want to increase the payroll tax cap. He also has proposed raising Social Security benefits by $2,400 per year. Even with the added benefits, the plan would fully fund the program for the next 75 years.
You don't have to take the senator's word on that projection. Social Security's chief actuary, Stephen Goss, confirmed that the proposed changes would allow all scheduled benefits to be paid out fully over a 75-year period. 
By comparison, Biden's campaign proposal to increase the payroll tax cap to $400,000 would only delay Social Security's insolvency until 2044. After that point, Social Security recipients would face the prospect of an 11% benefit reduction. 
There are other potential ways to avoid steep benefits cuts. For example, raising the full retirement age from 67 to 69, then indexing it based on longevity, would, in combination with Biden's plan to increase the payroll tax cap to $400,000, fully fund Social Security through 2059. Other possible alternatives include raising the payroll tax percentage. 
Will President Biden throw his support behind Sen. Sanders' huge change to Social Security? That remains to be seen. But the president recognizes that something needs to be done.
Last year, Social Security's trustees projected that the combined trust funds for the program would be depleted by 2035. But the Congressional Budget Office now estimates that the trust funds could run out of money sooner than expected, as early as 2033.
Significant changes will be needed to avoid insolvency. If no changes are made, Social Security recipients will see their benefits cut by at least 20%. One way or another, major changes to the federal program are on the way.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.