March 04, 2023 — 12:49 pm EST

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Sprouts Farmers Market (NASDAQ: SFM) rose 11% over the past week, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. The supermarket chain delivered higher-than-expected profits and issued an encouraging growth forecast for the year ahead.
Sprouts' net sales climbed 6% year over year to $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter, driven by store count expansion and increased sales at the grocer's existing locations. Sprouts opened 16 new stores in 2022, ending the year with 386 stores across 23 states.
Meanwhile, Sprouts' comparable store sales grew by 2.9% in the fourth quarter and 2.2% in 2022. That topped Wall Street's expectations, which had called for Q4 comp growth of 1.9%.
The solid sales performance also lifted the food retailer's profit margins. Sprouts' operating income surged 20% to $62 million. And its earnings per share, boosted by stock buybacks, soared 31% to $0.42. That, too, surpassed analysts' estimates, which had called for per-share profits of $0.37.
"These solid trends reflect the resilience of healthy, natural, and organic food, and give us confidence in our future business," CEO Jack Sinclair said in a press release.
Sprouts intends to open 30 new stores in 2023 and close 11 underperforming stores that do not fit the company's current smaller store format.
All told, Sprouts full-year guidance calls for:
"While we recognize the near-term economic environment is difficult to predict, the stability of our recent sales is encouraging," Chief Financial Officer Chip Molloy said. "We are optimistic about our ongoing cash generation and our ability to invest in our business for growth."
10 stocks we like better than Sprouts Farmers MarketWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Sprouts Farmers Market wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Sprouts Farmers Market. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.