March 04, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Book/Market Investor model based on the published strategy of Joseph Piotroski. This value-quant strategy screens for high book-to-market stocks, and then separates out financially sound firms by looking at a host of improving financial criteria.
EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC (EGLE) is a small-cap value stock in the Water Transportation industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joseph Piotroski changed from 0% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. is a shipowner-operator that provides global transportation solutions to a diverse group of customers, including miners, producers, traders and end-users. The Company focuses on the mid-size dry bulk vessel and owns fleets of Supramax/Ultramax vessels. It performs all management services in-house, such as commercial, operational, technical, and administrative services. The Company transports a range of cargoes, including both major bulk cargoes, such as iron ore, coal and grain coal, grain and iron ore, and minor bulk cargoes, such as fertilizer, steel products, petcoke, cement and forest products. It owned and operated a modern fleet of approximately 53 Supramax/Ultramax dry bulk vessels. The Company owns a fleet that totals over 53 vessels, with an aggregate carrying capacity of over three million deadweights (dwt). Its Supramax and Ultramax dry bulk vessels are equipped with cargo-handling cranes that range in size from over 50,000 to 65,000 dwt.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC
EGLE Guru Analysis
EGLE Fundamental Analysis
Joseph Piotroski Portfolio
About Joseph Piotroski:  Piotroski isn't your typical Wall Street big shot. In fact, he's not even a professional investor. He's a good old numbers-crunching accountant and college professor. But in 2000, shortly after he started teaching at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Piotroski published a groundbreaking paper in the Journal of Accounting Research entitled "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers". In it, Piotroski laid out an accounting-based stock-selection/shorting method that produced a 23 percent average annual back-tested return from 1976 through 1996 -- more than double the S&P 500's gain during that time. Piotroski's findings were reported in major financial publiations like SmartMoney. Today, he teaches accounting at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.