March 17, 2023 — 05:35 am EDT

      Written by
                        Will Ebiefung for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


It's hard to time the stock market. But the 2022 downturn may have priced in a lot of bad news, giving investors a chance to buy their favorite stocks at a discount. 
With its share price down by 52% over the last 12 months, Carnival (NYSE: CCL) certainly looks like a potential buy-the-dip opportunity. But investors should think carefully before putting money behind this embattled cruise ship operator. 
Image source: Getty Images.
The COVID-19 pandemic was perhaps the cruise industry's most catastrophic black swan event in history, and it is finally coming to a close. 
In 2022, Carnival and its peers scrapped testing and vaccination requirements on voyages under two weeks. And industry insiders expect the Chinese market to ease restrictions by 2024. Carnival's management previously saw the Asian nation as a big growth opportunity, representing around 5% of passenger capacity in 2019.
The cruise industry recovery is starting to show in Carnival's operating performance. With fourth-quarter revenue of $3.8 billion, the company has regained 80% of its pre-crisis sales. And deposits for future voyages hit a record high of $5.1 billion. 
But that's where the good news ends. 
While Carnival's top-line metrics are improving, its balance sheet is worsening because of catastrophic cash burn. In full year 2022, it generated an operating loss of $4.4 billion -- after losing $7.1 billion in 2021 and $2.2 billion in 2020. Even if the company returns to operating profitability this year, it could take decades to undo the damage. 
As of the end of 2022, Carnival's balance sheet held $32 billion in long-term debt. And this leverage will put further strain on its cash flow situation through debt paydown and interest expense -- which totaled $1.6 billion in 2022. 
This means that even if the company can regain its 2019 operating income ($3.3 billion), interest payments alone will take up almost half of that. Further, since 2019, Carnival's share count has ballooned by more than 80% to 1.3 billion, so shareholders' claim on future earnings will be significantly more diluted than before. 
As a cruise ship operator, Carnival also runs a capital-intensive business. Not only does it have to maintain its fleet, but it also has to buy new vessels to replace aging ones and grow capacity. Capital expenditures totaled $4.9 billion in 2022, another whopping outflow. 
With a price-to-sales (P/S) multiple of 1.05, Carnival's stock looks quite affordable on the surface. After all, that valuation is less than half the S&P 500's average of 2.27. But the picture looks much less rosy when you consider the company's debt load, which is around twice the size of its market cap. 
This leverage should be a big consideration in Carnival's valuation because it will be a major long-term drag on the company's cash flow and profitability. While bondholders will probably get their interest payments, it's hard to see the company generating significant value for common stockholders. 
10 stocks we like better than Carnival Corp.When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Carnival Corp. wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Will Ebiefung has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Carnival Corp. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.