March 04, 2023 — 06:15 am EST

      Written by
                        Keithen Drury for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In a quarter when many companies issued cautious guidance or reported lackluster earnings, two that knocked it out of the park were Airbnb (NASDAQ: ABNB) and MercadoLibre (NASDAQ: MELI). Neither company disappointed with their most recent results, and yet their stocks remain cheap from a valuation standpoint.
Even though both stocks saw success to begin 2023, there's a lot more in store. Read on to find out why these two have strong potential for the rest of the year and beyond.
Airbnb has become synonymous with alternative lodging and experiences. Whether you're crashing in someone's basement for a few months while you get established in a new city or want to rent out an entire beach house, Airbnb is the place to go. Travelers are also flocking to the platform in record numbers: The fourth quarter saw the highest number of active bookers ever on the platform. 
All this growth translated into record Q4 revenue of $1.9 billion, up 24% over last year. Airbnb is also becoming quite profitable, putting up a 17% net income margin in the fourth quarter and a 23% profit margin for the whole year. 
To slam the door shut on the notion that Airbnb would struggle during an economic downturn, management guided for about 19% growth in Q1 with similar profit margins. Although consumers are still having their pocketbooks squeezed by inflation, it seems Airbnb has maintained its position among travel companies as a go-to booking site.
The stock is also reasonably priced based on its price-to-free-cash-flow ratio, especially considering its revenue growth rate.

ABNB Price to Free Cash Flow data by YCharts
As Airbnb carries momentum into 2023, I wouldn't be surprised if the stock continues outperforming its competitors.
To sum up MercaboLibre's business model, it combines essential elements of Amazon and PayPal and offers those services to several Latin American markets. MercadoLibre has been a top performer for a long time, and the fourth quarter was no exception.
On its commerce side, gross merchandise volume grew a currency-neutral 35% year over year, with items sold rising 11%. It also delivered 94% of the items ordered on its platform, with 51% of those delivered on the same or next day. Combined, this led to solid commerce growth, with revenue increasing 36% to $1.7 billion. In a market where many commerce companies are experiencing growth challenges, MercadoLibre stands in stark contrast.
But that's not even its most promising segment. Its fintech wing, which includes consumer credit, digital wallets, and online payment tools, has displayed remarkable growth over the past year.
Data source: MercadoLibre. YOY = year over year. 
In Q4, MercadoLibre grew its overall revenue by 56% on a currency-neutral basis. It's important to examine the company through a currency-neutral lens, as the currency fluctuations in Latin American countries can be quite extreme.
MercadoLibre also saw its profit margin expand from a 2.2% loss in the year-ago period to a 5.5% profit this year. With the revenue and profits side of MercadoLibre's business proliferating, the stock remains one of the best growth stocks available.
However, the shares are relatively cheap on a historical price-to-sales (P/S) basis.

MELI PS Ratio data by YCharts
When a stock's valuation decreases, it's because sentiment has changed or a business model has shifted. However, MercadoLibre's growth has remained elevated despite its cheap P/S valuation.
Given MercadoLibre's inexpensive valuation, the stock has incredible potential for 2023 and beyond. Moreover, I believe it can be one of the top-performing stocks via multiple expansion and revenue growth.
Find out why Airbnb is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Airbnb is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Keithen Drury has positions in Airbnb, Amazon.com, MercadoLibre, and PayPal. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb, Amazon.com, MercadoLibre, and PayPal. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: short April 2023 $70 puts on PayPal. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.