March 03, 2023 — 06:43 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Investors were really dialed in to consumer relations tech specialist LivePerson (NASDAQ: LPSN) at the end of the week. On Friday, the company's share price leaped more than 19% higher, largely on the back of an analyst upgrade. That performance trounced even the frothy S&P 500 index, which rose by 1.6%.
The analyst going on a bull run was Craig-Hallum's Jeff Van Rhee, who changed his recommendation on LivePerson stock to buy from his previous hold. His price target on the shares was raised to $15 apiece, which if reached would mean a 30% improvement over the current level. 
Van Rhee's new take on LivePerson is due to what he considers to be a significant overreaction to the news that the specialized tech company's latest set of earnings would be delayed. On Tuesday, it announced that it is rescheduling its fourth-quarter 2022 release. This is due to the longer-than-expected time needed to file its 2022 annual report in the form of a mandated 10-K regulatory document.  
LivePerson did not set a new date for either, but did say that as long as it files the 10-K within the Securities and Exchange Commission's 15-day grace period it will be in the clear.
As often happens with such delays, dismayed investors sold off LivePerson aggressively. Van Rhee considers the resulting depressed price to be an opportunity.
In a new research note, he wrote that "We see the company as likely a double digit/mid-teens grower the next few years and trading 11x what we view as a likely EBITDA for '23."
10 stocks we like better than LivePersonWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and LivePerson wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends LivePerson. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.