March 03, 2023 — 05:56 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Investors weren't tuning in to TV station conglomerate Tegna's (NYSE: TGNA) stock this week despite a potentially lucrative buyout offer looming over the company. The culprit was dispiriting quarterly earnings, which contributed to the share price eroding by 22% over the course of the week, according to data compiled by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Tegna published its fourth-quarter and full-year 2022 figures before market open on Monday, and they set the bearish tone for the stock in the subsequent days.
The company's total revenue for the quarter was $917 million. Although this was up by 18% year over year, it fell well short of the average analyst estimate of nearly $956 million. Non-GAAP (adjusted) net profit was $331 million ($0.98 per share). As with revenue, profitability was well higher -- the adjusted tally was $128 million in the year-ago period -- yet it didn't meet the collective prognosticator projection, which was $1.07 per share. 
Tegna attributed its growth to what it characterized as "strong growth in political revenue and record subscription revenue despite [advertising and marketing services] revenue declines as a result of political displacement and macroeconomic headwinds."
Tegna did not proffer any guidance, which is understandable as it might soon recognize a long-standing ambition to sell itself. Just over one year ago, it announced that an affiliate of hedge fund Standard General agreed to acquire the company for $24 per share in cash.
However, in late February, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued a hearing designation order regarding the sale. As a result, Tegna said without elaboration it is "currently evaluating its options," so it seems there might be a big question mark hanging over the deal.
10 stocks we like better than TEGNAWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and TEGNA wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.