March 03, 2023 — 05:23 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The solar industry has certainly had its ups and downs over the years, to say the least. This week, at least for veteran sector mainstay First Solar (NASDAQ: FSLR), was one of the bullish periods.
First Solar's stock price soared almost 30% higher over the course of the week, according to data compiled by S&P Global Market Intelligence, thanks to the very encouraging fourth-quarter and full-year results it published on Tuesday.
The quarter saw First Solar book slightly over $1 billion in net sales, which was 10% higher on a year-over-year basis. Net loss narrowed considerably; in fourth quarter 2022 that line item was a bit over $7.5 million, or $0.07 per share. The year-ago deficit was over $49 million. 
This made for quite the estimates-crushing performance in terms of the bottom line. On average, analysts tracking the solar company were expecting a far deeper net loss of $0.17 per share. As for revenue, they were on target at $1 billion. 
In its earnings release, First Solar said its strong momentum throughout 2022 should continue this year. It quoted CEO Mark Widmar as saying that "We finished 2022 with a record contracted backlog, a significant pipeline of bookings opportunities, and a strong balance sheet placing us in a position to respond to emerging opportunities." 
First Solar is backing this confidence with strong guidance. The company is forecasting that its net sales will be $3.4 billion to $3.6 billion for the entirety of 2023, which would mean growth of at least 30% over the previous year. Earnings per share should come in at $7 to $8, a vast improvement over 2022's net loss of $0.41.
Both ranges are above the collective analyst projections. These are currently $3.34 billion for net sales, and merely $4.77 for per-share net income.
10 stocks we like better than First SolarWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and First Solar wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends First Solar. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.