March 03, 2023 — 05:21 pm EST

      Written by
                        Scott Levine for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Pressing the pedal to the metal as the end of the week came into view, investors reacted to a rumor about Rivian (NASDAQ: RIVN) and its 2023 vehicle production that began circulating late on Friday afternoon.
Shares of the electric vehicle (EV) manufacturer ended Friday's trading session 7.6% higher, having retreated slightly from their earlier rise of 11.2%.
Crediting several anonymous sources, Bloomberg reported that Rivian's management informed employees that achieving vehicle production of 62,000 units was a potentially achievable feat in 2023. This report contrasted Rivian's comments earlier in the week that identified the company's production target as 50,000.
Shortly after Bloomberg broke the news, another article reported that Rivian dismissed the 62,000 figure as misleading. According to Reuters, a Rivian spokesperson said, "The 62,000 number was said in an internal meeting and taken out of context."
It's no wonder that investors reacted so strongly to a rumor about Rivian having higher vehicle production expectations than what it proposed earlier in the week. EV peers like Fisker and Polestar are finding themselves increasingly in demand from car buyers. For Rivian to raise its 2023 vehicle production expectations, investors are speculating that it is keeping pace with competitors and not losing ground like another peer, Lucid.
It's extremely common for stocks to rise when rumors run rampant, so the rise in Rivian's stock today is hardly a surprise. It's important for potential investors to recognize, though, that nothing material has changed with the company. If you were bullish or bearish on the stock this morning, there's no reason not to feel the same way this afternoon.
10 stocks we like better than Rivian AutomotiveWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Rivian Automotive wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Scott Levine has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.