March 03, 2023 — 04:10 pm EST

      Written by
                        Howard Smith for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) shares jumped as much as 4.5% Friday after some positive news related to both of the company's powertrain products. Ford has maintained that it doesn't plan to go all-electric, and it provided more news on that front today. The stock held on to a gain of 4.1% as of 3:45 p.m. ET. 
Investors have yet to see if Ford's strategy to continue producing its line of internal combustion engine products alongside its growing electric vehicle lineup makes good business sense. Many competitors including General Motors have set timelines for going all-electric.
Along with announcing a 68% year-over-year increase in February electric vehicle sales, Ford said its internal combustion vehicle sales also jumped 20.5% in the U.S. Today, the company said it is studying ways to boost production this year of its popular gasoline and hybrid F-150 trucks "to meet continued strong demand." It also intends to increase production of the Bronco Sport SUV and Maverick pickup truck. 


Investors are hoping the continued popularity of its legacy vehicles will give it an edge over competitors that are abandoning their gas offerings. But the company is also investing heavily to ramp up the rate of production on its Mustang Mach-E, F-150 Lightning, and E-Transit commercial van electric products. 
Image source: Ford Motor Company.
Yesterday, Ford announced the United States Postal Service plans to purchase more than 9,200 E-Transit vans for its fleet over the next two years. Investors seem to be giving the company credit for offering the parallel product lines with the news that both are doing well right now.

10 stocks we like better than Ford Motor CompanyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Ford Motor Company wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Howard Smith has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends General Motors and recommends the following options: long January 2025 $25 calls on General Motors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.