March 03, 2023 — 03:16 pm EST

      Written by
                        Jon Quast for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of work-management software company Asana (NYSE: ASAN) jumped on Friday, benefiting from an upgrade by Wall Street. As of 2:30 p.m. ET, Asana stock was up 8.5%, but it had been up as much as 11% earlier in the trading session.
Asana doesnt reportfinancial results for the fourth quarter of its fiscal 2023 until March 8. But analyst Robert Simmons of DA Davidson isn't waiting to give his opinion about the company. According to CNBC, Simmons raised his outlook for Asana stock today, citing strong download data from third-party research company SensorTower.
Asana's software is cloud based and can be accessed by web browsers -- users don't have to use the mobile app. Free versions are also available. Therefore, while a potential increase in app downloads is encouraging, it's important to remember that this doesn't necessarily mean that this tech company is poised to deliver strong financial results.
For Q4, Asana is guiding for revenue of $144 million to $146 million, which would be about a 30% year-over-year increase. On one hand, 30% growth is good. On the other hand, it would be the company's slowest growth rate by far since it went public in 2020.

ASAN Revenue (Quarterly YoY Growth) data by YCharts.
If there's one thing Asana is doing well, it's attracting customers. The company ended its third quarter with over 135,000 paying customers, adding about 4,000 during Q3 alone. Given its past success, perhaps the data from SensorTower is indeed pointing to strong Q4 results.
Considering Asana stock is down about 88% from its all-time high, it seems expectations for the company are still low right now. Therefore, strong Q4 results could spark a positive reaction when it reports next week.
10 stocks we like better than AsanaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Asana wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jon Quast has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Asana. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.