March 03, 2023 — 03:04 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In afternoon trading on Friday, Energy stocks are the best performing sector, up 1.5%.  Within that group, EQT Corp (Symbol: EQT) and Trane Technologies plc (Symbol: TT) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 3.0% and 2.9%, respectively.  Among energy ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLE), which is up 1.3% on the day, and up 3.31% year-to-date.  EQT Corp, meanwhile, is up 8.47% year-to-date, and Trane Technologies plc is up 12.71% year-to-date.  EQT makes up approximately 0.9% of the underlying holdings of XLE.


The next best performing sector is the Healthcare sector, up 1.3%.  Among large Healthcare stocks, Cooper Companies, Inc. (Symbol: COO) and Align Technology Inc (Symbol: ALGN) are the most notable, showing a gain of 7.5% and 6.8%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Healthcare stocks is the Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLV), which is up 0.8% in midday trading, and down 4.98% on a year-to-date basis.  Cooper Companies, Inc., meanwhile, is up 5.92% year-to-date, and Align Technology Inc is up 57.50% year-to-date.  Combined, COO and ALGN make up approximately 0.8% of the underlying holdings of XLV.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Friday.  As you can see, nine sectors are up on the day, while none of the sectors are down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.