March 03, 2023 — 03:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Demitri Kalogeropoulos for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Cloud software specialist Elastic (NYSE: ESTC) jumped on Friday, gaining 10% by 3 p.m. ET, compared to a 1.5% increase in the S&P 500. That boost added to a bright 2023 so far for shareholders. The stock is up 25% this year, compared to a 5.3% increase in the wider market.
Friday's rally was powered by Elastic's Q3 earnings report, which featured a bullish short-term growth outlook.
Sales were up 27% in the period that ended in late January, after accounting for currency exchange rate shifts. The company saw especially strong demand for its cloud services platform, which was up 40% on that basis. Some investors were worried heading into the report that many of Elastic's potential clients would decide to scale back on spending on its search services.
Instead, deals were relatively easy to find. "Customers made strong contractual commitments to us during the quarter, and we remain confident in the long-term market opportunity," CEO Ash Kulkarni said in a press release.
On the other hand, Elastic isn't yet generating sustainable earnings. Operating losses expanded to $69 million from $46 million a year ago, in fact. But the company produced positive cash flow, which is encouraging for a software company in this stage of its growth cycle.
Some of the best news in the earnings update was that Elastic is seeing no collapse in demand so far in 2023. Revenue is expected to grow by nearly 20% in the Q4 period and by 28% for the full year. Hitting those figures would easily push Elastic past $1 billion in annual sales in fiscal 2023.
Shareholders are hoping that there are many more years of growth ahead for the business. A key part of the investing thesis is that Elastic will take steps toward profitability too.
The company will have to continue creating in-demand search and cybersecurity services to continue that momentum. And competition should remain intense in this niche. But Elastic is finding ways to grow despite slowing economic growth rates around the world.
10 stocks we like better than ElasticWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Elastic wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Demitri Kalogeropoulos has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Elastic. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.