March 03, 2023 — 02:27 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of artificial intelligence company C3.ai (NYSE: AI) jumped as much as 31.5% in trading on Friday after the company reported fiscal third-quarter 2023 financial results. Shares are near their highs at 2:00 p.m. ET, trading 30.8% higher on the day.
Total revenue for the quarter fell from $69.8 million a year ago to $66.7 million, and net loss ballooned from $39.4 million to $63.2 million, or $0.57 per share. After pulling out $55.8 million in stock-based compensation (which is a real expense but not a cash expense), the loss was $0.06 per share. That beat the $0.22 loss that analysts were expecting.
Management expects revenue to be $70 million to $72 million in the fiscal fourth quarter, with a non-GAAP loss from operations of $24 million to $28 million.
This is a case of a company beating expectations by a wide margin but not necessarily posting great results. C3.ai is still reporting massive losses, and that doesn't look like it'll end soon. And growth guidance isn't all that strong given the rapid growth in AI usage right now.
The market might love what it saw from C3.ai today, but I'm more wary. The company needs to prove it can make money in AI before I'll be jumping in. It has a lot of potential, but exercise a healthy level of skepticism right now.
10 stocks we like better than C3.aiWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and C3.ai wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends C3.ai. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.