March 03, 2023 — 12:37 pm EST

      Written by
                        Lee Samaha for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) were up by 2.6% by 11 a.m. ET today. The rise comes after Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) analyst Erik Woodring raised his price target from $175 to $180, highlighting five catalysts for the stock: 
While increasing demand for iPhones, the success of new product launches, and the iPhone subscription service are subject to debate, it's beyond doubt that Apple has a significant opportunity to grow services revenue and improve gross margin. 
For example, while reported services growth was just 6% in the last quarter, Apple was hit with adverse foreign exchange movements. Nevertheless, on a constant currency basis, services revenue grew by 13%, easily in line with Woodring's expectation for double-digit services growth in 2023. 
On its recentearnings call chief financial officer Luca Maestri said that Apple's "installed base of active devices grew double digits and achieved all-time records in each geographic segment and in each major product category." With over 2 billion active devices, the company has ample opportunity to grow service revenue into that installed base.
Given that its services gross margin is nearly 71% compared to its products' gross margin of about 37%, the opportunity to expand margins by growing services revenue is clear.
Apple is growing its services revenue at an impressive rate, and the company has an underlying opportunity from increasing market share in international markets. An iPhone subscription service is highly likely to help the company to at least maintain its dominant market position. 
That said, the key to the investment case is, as ever, the success of growing product sales, particularly the iPhone. If that goes to plan, then all the other catalysts mentioned by Woodring will come into play, potentially leading to a significant upside for the stock.
10 stocks we like better than AppleWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Apple wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Lee Samaha has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.