March 03, 2023 — 12:02 pm EST

      Written by
                        Neha Chamaria for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


ChargePoint Holdings (NYSE: CHPT) stock tumbled Friday morning and slumped 12.1% within minutes of the market's opening before regaining some ground. The electric vehicle (EV) charging network company released numbers for its fourth quarter (which ended January 31, 2023) yesterday, and although its revenue grew exponentially, that growth momentum is about to die down.
Here are some numbers from ChargePoint Holdings' fourth-quarter earnings report that you must know (all changes year over year):
It was a record quarter for ChargePoint Holdings, but the company fell short of its own revenue guidance of $160 million to $170 million. For the full year, too, revenue of $468.1 million came in at the lower end of its guidance range.
CEO Pasquale Romano explained why this happened: "ChargePoint delivered its largest sequential revenue growth to date and another record quarter, although below our guidance range as supply challenges for our DC solutions and quarter-end shipment challenges at this growth rate persisted."
What's miffed investors, though, is ChargePoint Holdings' outlook: It expects only 56% growth in revenue for its first quarter. That's a surefire sign of decelerating growth, considering that the company has consistently delivered more than 90% year-over-year growth in revenue in each of the past four quarters at least.
ChargePoint Holdings' lackluster outlook attracted at least two analyst downgrades today:
ChargePoint Holdings sells charging hardware, software, and service subscriptions and operates one of the largest EV charging networks in the world. Also, the Biden administration is pushing for EV infrastructure with multibillion-dollar funding under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act. Given the growth opportunities, investors expect ChargePoint Holdings' revenue to grow even faster, not to slow down.
10 stocks we like better than ChargePointWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and ChargePoint wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Neha Chamaria has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.