March 03, 2023 — 11:07 am EST

      Written by
                        Lou Whiteman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Eagle Bulk Shipping (NYSE: EGLE) missed expectations for earnings in the fourth quarter despite generating stronger-than-expected revenue. Investors were disappointed by the results, sending shares of Eagle Bulk down 15% on Friday morning.
Eagle Bulk provides midsized dry bulk vessels chartered by miners, commodity producers, traders, and end users. The past year or so has been a choppy period for the industry, with the shares losing about half of their value last summer due to fears that a potential recession would eat into charter demand. But the stock was up about 25% year to date heading into earnings on hopes that the worst was over.
The results put the stock in reverse. Eagle Bulk earned $2.76 per share on revenue of $151.4 million in the fourth quarter. Analysts had expected earnings of $2.99 per share on revenue of $125 million.
The issue was costs. Eagle Bulk reported vessel operating expenses were up 16.7% year over year due to higher crew costs, expenses related to the conflict in Ukraine, and one-time expenses including repair costs.
Average daily vessel operating expenses, excluding one-time costs, came in at $6,996 for the quarter, up from $6,028 per day per vessel during the same three months of 2021.
There are some potential catalysts for this stock heading into 2023: Eagle has a relatively young fleet in an industry full of aging vessels, and China's postpandemic reopening could spark increased demand for the commodities Eagle transports.
But shipping is a cyclical industry, and there is little Eagle management can do during slower-demand periods other than ride out the storm. It appears investors had gotten ahead of themselves in believing that the storm was basically over, leading to an oversized reaction to the earnings results.
10 stocks we like better than Eagle Bulk ShippingWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Eagle Bulk Shipping wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Lou Whiteman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.