March 16, 2023 — 10:00 pm EDT

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
Put me in, coach. I'm ready to replay.
Video conference company Zoom hit a clutch home run with MLB this season as on-field umpires will use the software to review disputed plays. As Yogi Berra put it, "you can observe a lot just by watching."
MLB introduced instant replays for certain calls in 2008, and it's become an occasionally frustrating part of America's pastime. According to the Associated Press, there were 1,434 video reviews last season that included 1,261 team challenges with 50.2% leading to overturned calls. The umpires on the field, however, never reviewed the tape, but would huddle awkwardly as they waited for a replay umpire elsewhere to radio in their decision. For this upcoming season, field umpires will be given iPads – sorry, Android fans, but Apple secured an $85 million annual streaming rights deal with MLB last year – to review plays and discuss with the replay umpire, who still makes the final decision.
Despite the league's best effort to speed things up, baseball remains a slow, methodical sport with games typically lasting about three hours. In that same amount of time you could've watched The Godfather, or cooked a Thanksgiving turkey, or taken a high-speed train from London to Paris. That isn't stopping Zoom from root, root, rooting for the home team:
All in one place: Looking ahead, Zoom will have to diversify beyond just video calls if it wants to compete with the likes of Google and Slack. At last year's Zoomtopia, the company announced it will introduce email integration, a calendar system, and a team chat function. These days, every app needs to be an everything app.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.