March 16, 2023 — 10:00 pm EDT

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
Robinhood is in hot water again, but this time it's because of someone else's liquidity crisis.
The digital exchange backpedaled furiously Thursday on its decision to refuse traders cashing out their short bets against failed Signature Bank, after realizing that it would have to honor options contracts sold on its platform despite its rather hazy ban on short selling.
This is not the first time Robinhood has acted like a despot despite its claim to be "democratizing finance." In January 2021, when a Reddit-fuelled frenzy super-charged the value of meme stocks, Robinhood -- facing a sudden liquidity crisis -- stopped users from buying stock in companies including Gamestop and AMC.
This time Robinhood was caught out by short selling, i.e. betting that a company's shares will decrease in value, and profiting off the difference. When crypto-exposed Signature's stock started to plunge as the inexorable domino that was Silicon Valley Bank hurtled toward it, some canny users bought put options. After Signature was shuttered by New York State regulators, Robinhood's knee-jerk reaction was to tell users that they couldn't exercise their options contracts, which were set to expire on Friday.
The customer uproar and public backlash that followed seem to have forced Robinhood into a U-turn:
Cryptoo-de-lally: Signature's disintegration isn't the only crypto-themed headache Robinhood is experiencing. The company announced at the end of last month it had received an investigative subpoena from the SEC over its crypto listings following the seismic implosion of FTX. Robinhood allows users to trade crypto tokens including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and the super-serious Dogecoin. Digital brokers make plans and God laughs... or maybe they don't make plans, and he laughs even harder.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.