March 16, 2023 — 07:06 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Designer Brands (NYSE: DBI) leaped 12% on Thursday after the footwear maker reported a surprise profit in its fiscal 2022 fourth quarter ended Jan. 28.  
Designer Brands' net sales fell 7.5% year over year to $760.5 million, driven by a 5.5% decline in comparable-store sales. The company chose to sacrifice revenue rather than match the heavy discounts offered by its competitors.
"In the fourth quarter, the footwear industry was highly promotional, specifically in athletic, to combat over-inventory positions and a constrained consumer," Designer Brands president Doug Howe said during a conference call with analysts. 
However, Designer Brands has demonstrated considerable progress with its owned brand strategy over the past year. In February, the retailer acquired the popular shoe brand Keds from Wolverine Worldwide. The company has also worked to design and source more of the products it sells and market them directly to consumers via its stores and e-commerce sites. 
"Our 2022 results clearly showcase the power and success of our brand-building strategy with our owned brands growing over 32% to last year while delivering gross margins 400 basis points higher than those we saw in 2019," CEO Roger Rawlins said in a press release. 
These efforts are helping to bolster Designer Brands' profitability. Its adjusted net income checked in at $4.7 million, or $0.07 per share, in the fourth quarter. That surpassed Wall Street's estimates, which had called for a per-share loss of $0.02. For the full year, Designer Brands' adjusted net income totaled $133.7 million, or $1.85 per share. 
Management expects economic conditions to remain challenging in the coming quarters. The company projects that its net sales growth, excluding the impact of its Keds acquisition, to be down mid-single digits in fiscal 2023. 
"Although we are navigating through a volatile environment, we are well-positioned to offer great value and a diverse assortment of product to our customers as we head into 2023," Howe said. "We will continue to be prudent in managing our expenses and inventory and drive growth in our portfolio of increasingly diversified owned brands."
10 stocks we like better than Designer BrandsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Designer Brands wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Designer Brands. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.