March 03, 2023 — 08:48 am EST

      Written by
                        Demitri Kalogeropoulos for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Opera (NASDAQ: OPRA) investors beat the market by a wide margin this week. Shares were up 24% through Thursday trading, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence, while the S&P 500 gained just 0.3%. The digital platform specialist's stock is up over 40% so far in 2023 compared to a 3.7% increase in the broader market.
This week's rally was sparked by a fourth-quarter earnings update that was packed with good news for shareholders.  
Opera announced on Monday that sales through late December rose 33% while adjusted earnings rose to $23 million, or 24% of sales. Both figures beat executives' short-term targets, reflecting solid demand for the company's browser, gaming, and Web3 products. "I am very pleased that yet again we were able to outperform our expectations, on top of repeatedly raised guidance," co-CEO Song Lin said in a press release.
While Opera is finding room to monetize its ad platform in a challenging selling environment, the company is still working toward sustained profitability. Operating profit this past year improved to $41 million compared to a $6 million loss in 2021. On a non-GAAP (adjusted)  basis, earnings landed at 8.4% of sales compared to a 9% loss in the prior year.
Wall Street is excited about the potential for Opera's digital platforms, including its new efforts to integrate AI-generated content into mobile and PC browsers. The company's profitability should rise, too, as the business gains a bigger user footprint.
It's possible that Opera's positive momentum will be slowed by a further weakening in the advertising market or by a recession in 2023. To date, though, the company seems to be having no trouble attracting more engagement -- and monetizing those gains. Continued wins along these lines should help investors generate market-beating returns with this growth stock.
10 stocks we like better than OperaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Opera wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Demitri Kalogeropoulos has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.