March 03, 2023 — 08:34 am EST

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro and Ryan Henderson for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In today's video, Jose Najarro and Ryan Henderson discuss Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT), Nvidia (NASDAQ: NVDA), and how cloud gaming is shifting the gaming market. Check out the short video to learn more, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of March 1, 2023. The video was published on March 2, 2023.

Find out why Nvidia is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Nvidia is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Jose Najarro has positions in Alphabet, Microsoft, and Nvidia. Ryan Henderson has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Microsoft, and Nvidia. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.