March 16, 2023 — 06:52 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Specialty real estate investment trust (REIT) Medical Properties Trust (NYSE: MPW) wasn't all that special for investors on Thursday. On the back of a recommendation downgrade from an analyst at an influential bank, shares of the company lost nearly 2% of their value. By contrast, the S&P 500 index rose by roughly the same percentage rate.
The downgrading analyst was Bank of America Securities' Joshua Dennerlein. He now has Medical Properties Trust pegged at neutral, one rung down from his previous buy. In addition to changing his recommendation, Dennerlein also cut his price target on the REIT, to $10 per share from the preceding $13. 
The downgrade doesn't come at a particularly opportune time for Medical Properties Trust.
REITs typically depend on banks to provide them with various forms of financing, as their core assets -- properties -- are ferociously expensive to acquire. The recent tumult in the banking sector following the meltdown of SVB Financial Group's Silicon Valley Bank and regional lender First Republic Bank is having unpleasant knock-on effects on certain REITs.
The recent rise in interest rates is also a concern, as this makes funding more expensive for businesses like REITs that rely on bank loans.
Medical Properties Trust, meanwhile, has had to cope with its own set of struggles. This includes one of its tenants filing for bankruptcy last year and another that is several months behind in fully paying its rent.
That said, the U.S. population is getting older and will thus need more medical care and stays at facilities like the ones the REIT operates. So perhaps its stock is a good, discounted play on long-term trends for investors willing to weather the current storms.
10 stocks we like better than Medical Properties TrustWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Medical Properties Trust wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America and SVB Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.