March 16, 2023 — 06:01 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN) popped 4% on Thursday, following bullish analyst commentary.  
JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth reiterated his buy rating on Amazon's stock. He now sees the e-commerce titan's share price surging by roughly 30%.
With the S&P 500 broad market index outperforming Amazon by roughly 40 percentage points over the past three years, Anmuth believes investor sentiment surrounding the retail and cloud computing giant's shares is at a multiyear low.
Anmuth acknowledged that Amazon Web Services is likely to see its revenue growth slow and profit margins fall due to the current economic backdrop. However, he argues that the long-term shift to the cloud is still underway. 
Moreover, Anmuth applauded CEO Andy Jassy's cost-cutting moves in Amazon's retail division. He expects the company's e-commerce operating margin to continue to improve in the coming quarters. He also sees Amazon's capital expenditures moderating as it slows the buildout of its massive fulfillment network. In turn, Anmuth thinks that Amazon's recent spate of negative cash production will end soon -- and the company will generate a whopping $21 billion in free cash flow in 2023. 
All told, Anmuth estimates that Amazon is currently trading for about 9 times his projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) in 2024. He asserts that Amazon's stock represents a "compelling opportunity" for investors at this price. 
Inflation concerns and recession fears have weighed heavily on Amazon's shares over the past year. But if the e-commerce behemoth can continue to make progress with its expense-reduction initiatives and stabilize its profit margins, Amazon could deliver the gains Anmuth is forecasting to its shareowners.
10 stocks we like better than Amazon.comWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Amazon.com wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Joe Tenebruso has the following options: long January 2025 $100 calls on Amazon.com. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com and JPMorgan Chase. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.