March 03, 2023 — 07:15 am EST

      Written by
                        Parkev Tatevosian for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Raytheon (NYSE: RTX), Intel (NASDAQ: INTC), and Domino's (NYSE: DPZ) all have the potential to be excellent dividend stocks. If you're looking to generate passive income through dividend stocks, this video will highlight the best dividend stock to buy from these three choices.
*Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of Feb. 28, 2023. The video was published on March 2, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than IntelWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Intel wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Parkev Tatevosian, CFA has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Domino's Pizza and Intel. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2023 $57.50 calls on Intel, long January 2025 $45 calls on Intel, and short January 2025 $45 puts on Intel. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Parkev Tatevosian is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through fool.com/parkev, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.