March 03, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Earnings Yield Investor model based on the published strategy of Joel Greenblatt. This value model looks for companies with high return on capital and earnings yields.
VERITIV CORP (VRTV) is a small-cap value stock in the Misc. Capital Goods industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joel Greenblatt changed from 70% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Veritiv Corporation is a business-to-business provider of packaging and hygiene products and services, as well as print and publishing products, and logistics and supply chain management solutions. The Company operates through four reportable segments: Packaging, Facility Solutions, Print, and Publishing and Print Management (Publishing). The Packaging segment provides custom and standard packaging solutions for customers based in North America and in global markets. The Facility Solutions segment sources and sells cleaning, break-room and other supplies, such as towels and tissues, food service, personal protective equipment, cleaning chemicals, and skincare, primarily in United States and Mexico. The Print segment sells and distributes commercial printing, writing, copying, digital, specialty products and graphics consumables. The Publishing segment sells and distributes coated and uncoated commercial printing papers to publishers, retailers, converters and specialty businesses.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of VERITIV CORP
VRTV Guru Analysis
VRTV Fundamental Analysis
STAGWELL INC (STGW) is a mid-cap growth stock in the Business Services industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joel Greenblatt changed from 50% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Stagwell Inc. is a digital-first business transformation and marketing service network. The Company's primary capabilities include digital transformation, performance media and data, research and strategy, and creativity and communications services. It operates through three segments: Integrated Agencies Network, Brand Performance Network and Communications Network. Its Integrated Agencies Network segment consists of the Anomaly Alliance, Constellation, the Doner Partner Network, Code and Theory, and National Research Group. The Brand Performance Network segment includes a unified media and data management structure with omnichannel media placement, creative media consulting, influencer and business-to-business marketing capabilities. The Communications Network segment includes a network that provides advocacy, strategic corporate communications, investor relations, public relations, online fundraising, and other services to both corporations and political and advocacy organizations.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of STAGWELL INC
STGW Guru Analysis
STGW Fundamental Analysis
Joel Greenblatt Portfolio
Top Joel Greenblatt Stocks
About Joel Greenblatt: In his 2005 bestseller The Little Book That Beats The Market, hedge fund manager Joel Greenblatt laid out a stunningly simple way to beat the market using two -- and only two -- fundamental variables. The "Magic Formula," as he called it, produced back-tested returns of 30.8 percent per year from 1988 through 2004, more than doubling the S&P 500's 12.4 percent return during that time. Greenblatt also produced exceptional returns as managing partner at Gotham Capital, a New York City-based hedge fund he founded. The firm averaged a remarkable 40 percent annualized return over more than two decades.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.