March 16, 2023 — 05:18 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Keith Noonan for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


LivePerson (NASDAQ: LPSN) stock is collapsing this week following the publication of the company's fourth-quarter earnings results. At the end of Thursday's daily trading session, the company's share price had fallen 56% since last week's market close, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence.
LivePerson published its Q4 earnings results after the market closed on March 15, and investors had an intensely negative reaction to the company's performance and guidance. Stock is now down roughly 58% year to date and trades down roughly 94% from its lifetime high.
For investors hoping for signs that LivePerson is benefiting from surging interest in AI, the company's Q4 report and forward guidance were devastating. The company posted a loss per share of $0.55 on revenue of $122.4 million, while the average analyst estimate had been targeting a per-share loss of $0.33 on sales of roughly $126.9 million. Sales were down roughly 1% compared to the prior-year period.
For this year's Q1, management is guiding for sales to come in between $106 million and $109 million, suggesting a year-over-year revenue decline of approximately 17.3%. For the full-year period, revenue is expected to be between $395 million and $410 million. This target fell far short of the average analyst estimate's call for sales of $525.88 million and suggests an annual sales decline of approximately 16.5% at the midpoint of the target. The weaker-than-expected results and guidance were followed by a series of stock downgrades from analysts. 
While AI stocks have generally been hot lately, the space is also becoming increasingly competitive, and many businesses are facing pressures due to challenging macroeconomic conditions. Simply having some exposure to the AI space isn't enough to drive stock returns, particularly in light of some powerful bearish catalysts shaping trading for the broader market right now. 

LPSN PS Ratio (Forward) data by YCharts
With LivePerson trading at less than 60% of this year's expected sales, the company no longer has a growth-dependent valuation, but it's not clear whether the customer-service specialist will be able to stabilize its business. 
10 stocks we like better than LivePersonWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and LivePerson wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Keith Noonan has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends LivePerson. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.