March 03, 2023 — 06:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Louis Navellier and the InvestorPlace Research Staff for                             
        




InvestorPlace ->


InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips
You might not think of IBM (NYSE:IBM) as a leader in the artificial intelligence space. Yet, you might be surprised to discover how committed this company is to advancing the science of machine learning. While it’s not right for every investor, IBM stock may be the AI industry pick you’ve been looking for.
Sure, there are other publicly listed businesses with machine learning angles. Some of them might even put “AI” in their names just to get the message across.
Meanwhile, IBM is an old company that some folks ignore, but they shouldn’t. As IBM continues to innovate and push the boundaries of modern technology, prospective AI market investors should take notice.


Now, it’s time for a gut check. How much risk are you prepared to bring to your tech portfolio? Consider this: IBM stock has a five-year monthly beta of 0.85, which means it has historically tended to move slower than the overall stock market. Therefore, this isn’t a stock that will appeal to financial traders seeking fast gains.
But then, not everyone who wants to add machine learning exposure to their portfolio is a thrill seeker. If IBM is a “steady Eddie” type of company, this should suit some volatility-averse investors.
Just because IBM stock isn’t a fast mover, doesn’t mean the company isn’t on the cutting edge of technology. For instance, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) plans to work with IBM to “develop several new technologies to extract insights from Earth observations.”
In case you’re not convinced yet that IBM is dedicated to advancing the science of AI, feel free to read IBM Chairman and CEO Arvind Krishna’s prepared quarterly remarks. Krishna assures that IBM has “been co-creating with many clients to deploy AI at scale.”
To back up his claim, Krishna reminds investors of IBM’s collaborations with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the British Broadcasting Company (BBC). Moreover, the chief executive states, “By applying AI and automation we have helped security analysts reduce the time to respond to threats from hours or days, to minutes.”
On top of all that, IBM revealed in a blog post that the company has built an AI-optimized supercomputer, known as Vela, in the cloud.
If you needed evidence that IBM isn’t a dinosaur company, here it is. Technology geeks should appreciate Vela’s specs, which include a “large GPU memory (80 GB), and a significant amount of memory and local storage on the node (1.5TB of DRAM, and four 3.2TB NVMe drives).”
If you’re in the market for a pure AI play that offers thrills and chills, IBM stock isn’t it. However, some people are perfectly satisfied investing in a more diversified business with “steady Eddie” qualities.
So, feel free to consider a share position in IBM for low-stress exposure to the machine learning field. You just might find a hidden gem as IBM proves itself, time and again, as a thoroughly modern innovator.
On the date of publication, neither Louis Navellier nor the InvestorPlace Research Staff member primarily responsible for this article held (either directly or indirectly) any positions in the securities mentioned in this article.
Louis Navellier, who has been called “one of the most important money managers of our time,” has broken the silence in this shocking “tell all” video… exposing one of the most shocking events in our country’s history… and the one move every American needs to make today.
The post IBM Stock Is a Low-Stress Way to Invest in AI appeared first on InvestorPlace.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.