March 03, 2023 — 06:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Parkev Tatevosian for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


After being stuck at home for what seemed like an eternity, people are eager to get out of the house. That's been a tailwind for Airbnb (NASDAQ: ABNB) and Disney (NYSE: DIS) as they accommodate soaring demand. This video will answer which one of these two reopening stocks is the best one to buy now.
*Stock prices used were the afternoon prices of Feb. 28, 2023. The video was published on March 2, 2023.


Find out why Airbnb is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Airbnb is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Parkev Tatevosian, CFA has positions in Airbnb and Walt Disney and has the following options: long January 2024 $105 calls on Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb and Walt Disney. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $145 calls on Walt Disney and short January 2024 $155 calls on Walt Disney. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Parkev Tatevosian is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through fool.com/parkev, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.