March 03, 2023 — 05:08 am EST

      Written by
                        Anthony Di Pizio for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Earnings season for the latest quarter is drawing to a close, but apparently, there are still a few surprises left. Digital language learning platform Duolingo (NASDAQ: DUOL) reported its results on Feb. 28, and not only did it blow away expectations financially, but investors were also delighted to learn about some of its upcoming new features. Why? Because they're powered by advanced artificial intelligence (AI).
OpenAI's ChatGPT conversational language model has taken the tech world by storm, and it has even attracted a multibillion-dollar investment from Microsoft. Now, Duolingo says it is working closely with that very company to change the way users learn languages. 
This revolutionary next step suggests another reason for investors to consider buying Duolingo stock now. Here's why.
Image source: Getty Images.
Duolingo is the most popular language education app in the world. It has been downloaded more than half a billion times, and in the fourth quarter of 2022, it had 60.7 million monthly active users, which was 43% more than it had a year ago. 
The platform owes its success to a couple of things. First, its freemium business model allows the majority of users to learn for free while roughly 7.8% of the base pay a subscription to unlock additional features (and that number is growing quickly). Second, its mobile-first, gamified approach takes learning out of the classroom and into the user's pocket, delivering an accessible, fun, and engaging experience. But that experience is about to get even better. 
Duolingo has invested in artificial intelligence since 2013, but the company believes it's now at a stage where it can boost the learning experience on a more personal level -- almost like a tutor could. Duolingo has been working with OpenAI to develop features for a new paid subscription tier called Max. Those features are "Explain My Answer," which will offer personalized feedback to users based on their mistakes in a given lesson, and "Roleplay," which allows users to chat with Duolingo characters to practice their conversational skills. 
The goal is to simulate a human tutor, which could accelerate a subscriber's progress significantly compared to using the free version of the Duolingo app. And not to state the obvious, but that could be incredibly valuable financially speaking for both the user and Duolingo. 
Duolingo was one of a mere handful of companies to regularly increase its revenue guidance throughout 2022, even in the face of extremely difficult economic conditions. As it turns out, users valued language learning and prioritized maintaining their subscriptions.
The company initially told investors it expected to generate $342 million in revenue for the year, and that figure had been revised to $367 million by the third quarter. But when its final results came in, Duolingo had brought in $369.5 million for 2022, representing 47% growth compared to 2021. 
Since its inception, the company has invested heavily in improving and expanding its platform, which it says is essential for user growth. As a result, the company has sacrificed profitability to continue developing, but it made substantial progress toward reducing its losses in 2022. 
Its net loss came in at $59 million for the year, and while that was only a marginal improvement compared to its $60 million net loss in 2021, it represented 16% of revenue compared to 24%, so it's moving in the right direction. 
Duolingo has a remarkable platform. Not only is it the biggest digital language education app on the planet, but management says 90% of its users are acquired organically with no paid advertising. 
It has also become the highest-grossing mobile app in the education category in both the Apple App Store and Alphabet's Play Store. That's even more impressive when you consider Duolingo only began monetizing through subscriptions in 2018.
Considering more than 2 billion people are learning languages worldwide, Duolingo has a huge addressable market to penetrate, and it continues to do so from a leadership position. By ramping up the use of artificial intelligence, the platform will be able to serve those learners more effectively than ever before while also opening the door to more opportunities to monetize.
Despite a 10% bounce on the back of its 2022 financial report, Duolingo stock is still trading down 51% from its all-time high. That might be a great entry point for investors, given the company's long-term potential.
10 stocks we like better than DuolingoWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Duolingo wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Anthony Di Pizio has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Apple, and Microsoft. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.