March 03, 2023 — 05:05 am EST

      Written by
                        Jason Hall and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Airbnb (NASDAQ: ABNB) have fallen sharply, and the company is very profitable and growing revenue quickly. But the stock is very expensive by every metric, and there are questions and concerns worth exploring. In this video, Motley Fool contributors Jason Hall and Tyler Crowe discuss what they both love about the business but come to different conclusions about whether it's a buy right now. 
*Stock prices used were from the afternoon of Feb. 16, 2023. The video was published on March. 2, 2023.

Find out why Airbnb is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Airbnb is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jason Hall has positions in Airbnb. Tyler Crowe has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jason Hall is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.