March 03, 2023 — 05:04 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Social Security gives you lots of choices when it comes to filing for benefits. The earliest age to claim Social Security is 62. But you're not entitled to your full monthly benefit based on your earnings history until full retirement age (FRA) arrives. FRA is either 66, 67, or somewhere in between, depending on your year of birth.
You can also delay your Social Security filing past FRA. For each year you do, your benefits get an 8% boost.
You can only grow your benefits until the age of 70. So while you're not forced to claim Social Security on your 70th birthday, there's no reason not to.
Image source: Getty Images.
But delaying your filing until age 70 will boost your benefits by a minimum of 24%. And that's an increase you'll get to enjoy throughout your retirement.
Clearly, a delayed Social Security claim could improve your financial picture substantially. But while you might plan to postpone your Social Security filing, things may not work out the way you expect them to. So it's important to focus on building savings, too.
Delaying Social Security should be a snap when you're able to continue working beyond FRA. But what if that isn't the case?
What if you run into health issues in your 60s that force you to file for Social Security at FRA or even before? Or what if your company downsizes you out of a job around FRA, and you can't find another one? At that point, you might have to claim Social Security right away and forgo the boost to your benefits you initially wanted.
While it's a good thing to try to delay your Social Security claim, you can't assume you'll be able to pull that off. So it's important to work on building retirement savings in case you don't wind up with a higher monthly benefit. That way, you're less likely to get hurt financially if you wind up having to claim Social Security at an earlier age than you'd like.
Furthermore, if you have a lot of savings, tapping your nest egg might allow you to delay your Social Security claim. Let's say you lose your job at age 67 and that's your FRA. You may decide you really want to try to delay Social Security one more year so you can snag an 8% guaranteed boost to your benefits. If you have a nice amount of savings, you might be able to take withdrawals for a year to make a delayed filing possible in this scenario.
All told, filing for Social Security beyond FRA could do a lot of great things for retirement -- as well as your peace of mind. After all, there's something to be said for knowing you're guaranteed a higher monthly paycheck throughout your retirement.
But make sure you're building savings as a backup in case your plans to delay your filing fall through. The last thing you want is to bank on a higher monthly benefit throughout retirement only to get stuck with a lower one -- and little money in savings to compensate.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.