March 16, 2023 — 05:08 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Alphabet (NASDAQ: GOOGL) (NASDAQ: GOOG) rose more than 4% on Thursday, furthering the rally in the tech titan's stock price that began earlier this week. Investors are bidding up Alphabet's shares following its recent moves in the rapidly expanding artificial intelligence (AI) arena.
On Tuesday, Alphabet announced a partnership with AI start-up Midjourney. Google Cloud will serve as Midjourney's preferred cloud infrastructure provider. Midjourney will use Google's cloud computing services and custom-designed chips to train the AI models that power its popular text-to-image applications.
"As AI opens the door for innovation across industries, companies like Midjourney are choosing Google Cloud to take advantage of our open, flexible, and performant infrastructure, which runs with incredible scale and efficiency," Google Cloud executive Amin Vahdat said in a press release. 
Alphabet also unveiled some intriguing new AI capabilities for its suite of productivity apps earlier this week. Initially, Google is adding generative AI features to Gmail and Google Docs to help users more easily write and edit their emails and documents. 

Google is testing these new AI tools with a select group of users. It plans to roll them out more broadly, along with additional AI features, later this year.
Alphabet's shares sold off in February after Microsoft announced its plans to integrate ChatGPT creator OpenAI's technology into its Bing search engine, in a bid to wrestle away market share from Google. On Thursday, Microsoft also unveiled new AI features for its popular Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook productivity software.
But the recent rally in Alphabet's share price suggests investors now believe the tech juggernaut will be able to hold its own against Microsoft in the AI arms race. If that remains the case, more gains could lie ahead for Alphabet's shareholders.
10 stocks we like better than AlphabetWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Alphabet wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet and Microsoft. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.