March 02, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
We won't sugarcoat it: carbon emissions didn't just increase last year, they hit a record high. That's bad.
The less-bad news is that emissions didn't reach the noxious heights many experts had expected, according to the latest report from the International Energy Agency.
There was plenty of reason to expect a much higher output of planet-choking emissions last year, given the ripe conditions for not-so-clean energy consumption spurred by Russia's war in Ukraine and the attendant energy crisis rippling out from Europe. Notably, nations all across the Old World continent were forced to return to the dirtiest, most Dickensian fuel source of them all: coal. That ignited an all-too-literal smoke signal for climate experts that 2022 would mark a significant step in the wrong direction for global efforts to reduce emissions.
And emissions did indeed inch up, to 36.7 billion tons last year, around a 1% increase from 2021. But concurrent with the coal revival was a massive investment in green energy, cushioning the blow of the high carbon output:
We're Number Two: China held its annual top spot as the world's top polluter, though (likely due to lockdown), emissions decreased slightly last year. Meanwhile, the US, the second-largest emitter, saw emissions rise nearly 1% -- likely due to extreme weather conditions driven by climate change. We're still looking for the silver lining in those frighteningly frequent hundred-year storm clouds.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.