March 02, 2023 — 07:45 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Snap (NYSE: SNAP) introduced an artificial intelligence (AI) chat tool under its subscription service this week, and it could be a new use case for the technology. It's not a search tool or a shopping tool; it's a conversational tool. If it's useful, it could be a precursor to new generative AI products from Snap.
*Stock prices used were end-of-day prices of March 1, 2023. The video was published on March 2, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than SnapWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Snap wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Travis Hoium has positions in Shopify and Snap. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Meta Platforms, Microsoft, and Shopify. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link, they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.