March 16, 2023 — 04:56 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Provention Bio (NASDAQ: PRVB) skyrocketed 256% this week as of the market close on Thursday, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence. The massive gain came after the announcement on March 13, 2023, that French drugmaker Sanofi (NASDAQ: SNY) plans to acquire Provention Bio for around $2.9 billion. 
Sanofi understandably likes the idea of adding Provention's Tzield product to its lineup. The drug won U.S. regulatory approval in 2022 to delay the onset of stage 3 type 1 diabetes (T1D) in adults, as well as in children ages 8 and older with stage 2 T1D.
This transaction appears to make sense for Sanofi. The big drugmaker had previously teamed up with Provention Bio to co-promote Tzield. Sanofi's current lineup features several diabetes products, including Lantus and Toujeo.
The deal is also a good one for Provention Bio shareholders. The market cap for the biopharmaceutical company had fallen below $600 million before the acquisition by Sanofi was announced and had only briefly topped $1 billion for a few days back in early 2021. 
Sanofi plans to move forward with a tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of Provention Bio. Assuming there are no roadblocks, the transaction should be completed in the second quarter of 2023.
Provention expects to soon wrap up a late-stage clinical study evaluating Tzield in treating pediatric and adolescent patients with new diagnoses of stage 3 T1D. It should report top-line results from this trial in the second half of this year.
10 stocks we like better than Provention BioWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Provention Bio wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Keith Speights has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.