March 02, 2023 — 05:12 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Arbe Robotics (NASDAQ: ARBE) fell by as much as 22.3% in trading on Thursday after the autonomous driving technology company reported its fourth-quarter financial results. Shares closed the session down by 21.6% 
Revenue for the quarter was just $150,000, down from $500,000 a year ago and well short of the $1.95 million that analysts had been expecting. 
It's net loss was $11.1 million, an improvement from its $15.8 million loss a year ago. But the loss was $0.17 per share, which was worse than the $0.14 per share loss that analysts expected. 
Management said that 2023 revenue will be $5 million to $7 million with an adjusted EBITDA loss of $32 million to $35 million. Analysts had been forecasting $40.8 million in revenue, so this guidance was well short of the bar Wall Street had set. 
There are not a lot of positives to take away from this quarter. The company is working on ramping up production, but clearly, its sales numbers aren't going to be meaningful anytime soon. And with losses mounting, the $54.2 million in cash on its balance sheet will be gone soon. 
I don't think this drop is an opportunity to buy shares. If the company is going to recover, investors can wait until it gets its operations to some sustainable level. For now, it's a high-risk stock that doesn't seem to have a long runway, and that's why I'm staying away today. 
10 stocks we like better than Arbe RoboticsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Arbe Robotics wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.