March 02, 2023 — 04:49 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Rumor of a potential buyout from a big-pocketed strategic investor was inflating the share price of video game company Take-Two Interactive Software (NASDAQ: TTWO) on Thursday. As a result, its stock zoomed more than 6% higher on the day, trouncing the less than 0.8% gain of the bellwether S&P 500 index.
The hot gossip is that none other than Japanese tech and entertainment giant Sony (NYSE: SONY) is the interested party. Apparently, the company will make a play to buy Take-Two if Microsoft succeeds in its determination to acquire Take-Two's fellow video game maker Activision Blizzard.
The fuel for this rumor appears to be a Thursday morning post on a relatively obscure entertainment website called Xfire. The post cites as a source a tweet published on Monday by a self-described "gaming industry analyst" with the Twitter handle of Rythian.
In the tweet, Rythian claimed to "have it on extremely good word that if Microsoft acquires Activision Blizzard, Sony is going after Take-Two Interactive to counter it."
Rythian added that three of his "trusted and almost always correct sources" confirmed this. He did not provide any more detail. Neither Take-Two nor Sony has yet commented on this speculation.
While the idea of a Sony takeover of Take-Two is certainly enticing for shareholders and intriguing for everyone else, at this point, it's only the thinnest of rumors. It's not coming from any sources that can be considered authoritative.
That said, Sony has plenty of financial muscle for a big-ticket acquisition should it want to bulk up in the video game segment. At the end of its most recently reported quarter, it had the equivalent of nearly $12 billion in cash and short-term investments and, surely, the ability to secure much more through various types of financing.
10 stocks we like better than Take-Two Interactive SoftwareWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Take-Two Interactive Software wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Activision Blizzard, Microsoft, and Take-Two Interactive Software. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.