March 02, 2023 — 03:13 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The news went from bad to worse today for Silvergate Capital (NYSE: SI), the crypto bank that's been under financial pressure for months. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the company said it is evaluating "its ability to continue as a going concern," which is often a precursor to filing for bankruptcy. 
Shares fell as much as 55.2% on Thursday and were down 53.7% as of 2:20 p.m. ET. 
The SEC filing was made to tell investors that the 10-K annual filing will be delayed. Some of the reasons cited for the delay were the need for time to evaluate internal controls, completion of independent audits, and recording journal entries related to major events. The "going concern" line I highlighted above was included later in the report. 
It was also announced that the company sold additional investment securities to pay back an advance from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. This was done with debt raised in January and February. 
Silvergate has been in trouble for months, but this was confirmation of how bad the company's condition has become. It was a counterparty to FTX, which went bankrupt in November 2022, and then saw investors pull out assets from Silvergate in a run on the bank. 
It's hard to see how the company recovers from this. Investors and depositors will flee, which will add even more pressure. Shareholders should get out anything they can now, because the future doesn't look bright for Silvergate. 
10 stocks we like better than Silvergate CapitalWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Silvergate Capital wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.