March 02, 2023 — 02:41 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the sectors faring best as of midday Thursday, shares of Utilities companies are outperforming other sectors, higher by 1.4%.  Within that group, NextEra Energy Inc (Symbol: NEE) and Constellation Energy Corp (Symbol: CEG) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 2.9% and 2.8%, respectively.  Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLU), which is up 1.6% on the day, and down 7.87% year-to-date.  NextEra Energy Inc, meanwhile, is down 13.67% year-to-date, and Constellation Energy Corp, is down 6.39% year-to-date.  Combined, NEE and CEG make up approximately 17.5% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


The next best performing sector is the Materials sector, higher by 1.1%.  Among large Materials stocks, Mosaic Co (Symbol: MOS) and Celanese Corp (Symbol: CE) are the most notable, showing a gain of 4.7% and 2.6%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Materials stocks is the Materials Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLB), which is up 0.9% in midday trading, and up 7.23% on a year-to-date basis.  Mosaic Co, meanwhile, is up 33.69% year-to-date, and Celanese Corp is up 20.78% year-to-date.  Combined, MOS and CE make up approximately 3.2% of the underlying holdings of XLB.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Thursday.  As you can see, eight sectors are up on the day, while one sector is down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.