March 02, 2023 — 02:41 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the sectors faring worst as of midday Thursday, shares of Financial companies are underperforming other sectors, showing a 0.6% loss.  Within that group, Principal Financial Group Inc (Symbol: PFG) and Signature Bank (Symbol: SBNY) are two of the day's laggards, showing a loss of 6.9% and 4.7%, respectively.  Among financial ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLF), which is down 0.8% on the day, and up 2.91% year-to-date.  Principal Financial Group Inc, meanwhile, is up 1.35% year-to-date, and Signature Bank, is down 4.51% year-to-date.  Combined, PFG and SBNY make up approximately 0.7% of the underlying holdings of XLF.


The next worst performing sector is the Technology & Communications sector, up 0.6%.  Among large Technology & Communications stocks, ON Semiconductor Corp (Symbol: ON) and Micron Technology Inc. (Symbol: MU) are the most notable, showing a loss of 3.1% and 3.0%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Technology & Communications stocks is the Technology Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLK), which is up 0.8% in midday trading, and up 10.86% on a year-to-date basis.  ON Semiconductor Corp, meanwhile, is up 23.03% year-to-date, and Micron Technology Inc. is up 10.39% year-to-date.  Combined, ON and MU make up approximately 1.0% of the underlying holdings of XLK.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Thursday.  As you can see, eight sectors are up on the day, while one sector is down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.