March 02, 2023 — 01:59 pm EST

      Written by
                        Howard Smith for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA) held its 2023 Investor Day event last night, but many who followed along were underwhelmed. With expectations for market-moving news dashed, the stock is plunging Thursday after a strong start to the year. As of 1:30 p.m. ET, Tesla shares were down by 6.4%.
That's not to say there wasn't any important news shared last night. Investors just wanted more details on upcoming new products. But the company still plans to grow sales and lower costs in both its electric vehicle (EV) and energy products. Several items of note from the presentation were:

Image source: Tesla.
Tesla's growth plans are going to take plenty more capital investments. CFO Zach Kirkhorn told the audience that the company could invest at least another $150 billion to achieve its long-term goals. That spending will include new manufacturing plants as well as additions to existing ones. The company recently announced an expansion to its Nevada battery plant, for example. Tesla will also invest to vertically integrate further, as evidenced by its plans for lithium refining capabilities. 

Investors wanted more details, however. There was hope the company would provide more information regarding the launch of a lower-priced model. Musk did talk about lowering costs and offering a more affordable product. "The desire for people to own a Tesla is extremely high," he said. "The limiting factor is their ability to pay for a Tesla." 

Investors already knew the Cybertruck would be coming this year. The lack of details around any other new model seems to be the biggest disappointment today. But long-term investors shouldn't be selling for that reason. Musk and company don't need to telegraph every move to a growing list of competitors. But the sharp rise in shares this year did get some investors to take profits today, it seems. That could be an opportunity for those who trust Musk's vision and want to see the company grow over the long term.
Find out why Tesla is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Tesla is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Howard Smith has positions in Tesla. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Tesla. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.