March 02, 2023 — 11:44 am EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Stagwell (NASDAQ: STGW) were leaping 9.7% higher at 10:49 a.m. ET in morning trading Thursday after the marketing and communications company reported fourth-quarter earnings results that beat analyst estimates on the top and bottom lines.
Stagwell posted adjusted earnings of $0.22 per share on revenue of $708.2 million, handily thrashing Wall Street's forecast of $0.15 per share on $701.3 million.
Image source: Getty Images.
Chairman and CEO Mark Penn says Stagwell finished the year "with industry-leading double-digit growth, strong margin expansion, record free cash flow, record earnings per share, and a net debt ratio significantly below our target."
It's also jumping on the artificial intelligence bandwagon, with Penn saying Stagwell has "built game-changing AI and AR-driven products." Last July, it acquired Apollo Program, which it describes as a real-time, AI-powered software-as-a-service platform for marketing.
Stagwell said it was doubling its stock buyback authorization to $250 million. After hitting a low of below $5 per share, the marketing firm's stock is now 55% above that level.
Stagwell is looking for 7.5% to 10% organic revenue growth in 2023, which would be almost half the 14% growth it achieved at the low end of its guidance with adjusted earnings between $0.90 per share and $1.05 per share. That would be flat to up 16% compared to fiscal year 2022.
Stagwell paid out $33.1 million in stock-based compensation in 2023, or 121% of the $27.3 million in net income it earned.
10 stocks we like better than StagwellWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Stagwell wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.