March 02, 2023 — 11:34 am EST

      Written by
                        Keith Speights for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Diversified Healthcare Trust (NASDAQ: DHC) were skyrocketing 54.8% higher as of 11:17 a.m. ET on Thursday. The huge gain came after the company announced its fourth-quarter results following the market close on Wednesday.
Diversified Healthcare Trust reported total revenue in the fourth quarter of $336.9 million, up slightly from revenue of $336.7 million in the prior-year period. This result came in well above the consensus estimate of $330.1 million.
The healthcare REIT posted a net loss in Q4 of $65.3 million, or $0.27 per share, compared to positive earnings of $365.6 million, or $1.54 per share, in the prior-year period. The average analysts' estimate was for a net loss in Q4 of $0.26 per share.
Arguably the most important number for Diversified Healthcare Trust, though, was its normalized funds from operations (FFO) of $8.1 million, or $0.03 per share. This reflected significant improvement from the normalized FFO loss of $0.07 per share in the fourth quarter of 2021. It was also much better than the consensus estimate of a loss of $0.01 per share.
Perception is everything in investing. After Diversified Healthcare Trust's Q4 update, the perception about the company's outlook is much better than it has been.
The biggest factor behind Diversified Healthcare Trust's better-than-expected performance is improvement in the company's SHOP (senior housing operating portfolio) segment. Occupancy for the segment rose 380 basis points, with average monthly rates jumping nearly 9% year over year.
The healthcare REIT's future could be brighter now. Last month, Diversified Healthcare Trust announced an amendment to its credit facility that provides some covenant relief. This move will enable the company to invest more in its properties and potentially lead to an even stronger financial performance from its SHOP segment in the coming quarters.
10 stocks we like better than Diversified Healthcare TrustWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Diversified Healthcare Trust wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Keith Speights has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.