March 16, 2023 — 02:44 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Chris Neiger for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of EverCommerce (NASDAQ: EVCM), a service commerce platform, were rising quickly today after the company reported its fourth-quarter financial results. The company's top line beat Wall Street's expectation for the quarter and EverCommerce issued full-year revenue guidance that likely impressed investors. 
As a result, the software stock climbed 16.9% as of 2:14 p.m. ET. 
EverCommerce reported a non-GAAP (adjusted) loss of $0.09 for the quarter, which was worse than the $0.02 loss in the year-ago quarter and much lower than analysts' consensus earnings estimate of $0.08 per share. 
But investors looked past the company's bottom-line results and instead focused their attention on the fact that EverCommerce's sales climbed 19% from the year-ago quarter to $161.8 million and outpaced Wall Street's average estimate of $157.9 million. 
EverCommerce CEO Eric Remer said in prepared remarks that the company exceeded its revenue guidance for the year "despite increased macroeconomic headwinds that affected our marketing services solutions in the second half of the year." 
Remer also noted that the company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of $35.2 million -- up 20% year over year -- was also ahead of guidance and was partially the result of EverCommerce reining in some of its costs. 
Management issued 2023 revenue guidance in the range of $680 million to $700 million, which is in line with the analysts' average sales estimate of $690 million for the year. 
With the company beating Wall Street's average top-line estimate for the quarter and issuing solid revenue guidance for the full year, investors were unsurprisingly optimistic about the software company today.
10 stocks we like better than EverCommerceWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and EverCommerce wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Chris Neiger has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.