March 16, 2023 — 02:36 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Anders Bylund for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Electronics manufacturing expert Jabil (NYSE: JBL) saw share prices dip as much as 7.6% lower on Thursday morning, following the earnings report for the second quarter of fiscal year 2023. The stock started to climb back from that early-morning trough, showing a milder 3.5% haircut by 12:45 p.m. ET.
At first blush, the price drop seems strange. Jabil reported 12% year-over-year earnings growth, landing at $1.88 per share, and revenues rose 7% to $8.13 billion. Both headline figures edged out Wall Street's consensus expectations. Guidance for the next quarter and full year was also above the current Street projections.
Shouldn't that be enough to drive Jabil's stock higher today? As it turns out, investors may have expected more than in-line guidance and modest growth this time. Electronics manufacturers have posted robust stock returns over the last year while the broader market struggled, and Jabil approached this report with a sector-leading one-year gain of 53%.
Against that backdrop, you need a home-run kind of quarter in order to support the surging stock price. So instead, today's price action results from Jabil merely delivered a solid base hit (a five-yard pass at midfield, a simple offside trap, or a good free throw instead of a flashy dunk, in case you're not into baseball).
Here's the interesting part: Jabil's shares look cheap even after the bull run they experienced in recent months:

JBL Normalized PE Ratio data by YCharts.
And the business is enjoying an extended period of high demand, as electronic systems and components are making their way into lots of traditionally mechanical devices.
"We continue to expect areas of our businesses benefiting from strong long-term secular growth trends like electric vehicles, healthcare, renewable energy infrastructure, 5G, and cloud to drive solid year-over-year growth," CFO Mike Dastoor said on the earnings call.
While investors may need to be patient as the company's growth may not be a home run, Jabil's solid base hit in this earnings report suggests that it has a strong foundation for future success. That's still an impressive play in this shaky economy, and Jabil looks like a solid value investment today.
10 stocks we like better than JabilWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Jabil wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Anders Bylund has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.