March 02, 2023 — 09:37 am EST

      Written by
                        David Jagielski for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In February, Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) rocked the markets with news that it was slashing its dividend by a mammoth 66%. That's a huge blow to investors who counted on that dividend. The danger ultimately comes down to cash flow as Intel was burning through cash from its day-to-day operations, and that is a huge red flag for income investors.
Three dividend stocks that look to be in much better shape and have stronger cash flows than Intel are AbbVie (NYSE: ABBV), Costco Wholesale (NASDAQ: COST), and Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT). Not only are their yields relatively safe, but they are likely to rise as well.
Drugmaker AbbVie is a Dividend King known for raising its payouts on a regular basis. Plus, it's a cash cow as it has generated more than $24 billion in free cash flow last year, which is more than double the $10 billion it paid in dividends. 
The biggest worry surrounding the company today is replacing sales for top-selling drug Humira, which may bring in 37% less in revenue this year as biosimilars become available. But the company has been preparing for this and is confident that over the long run its other immunology drugs, Skyrizi and Rinvoq, will more than make up the shortfall.
This year, AbbVie is projecting that its adjusted earnings per share will be between $10.70 and $11.10, which is well above the $5.92 that it pays in dividends per share on an annual basis. Last year, the company raised its dividend payment by 5%. A similar rate hike could happen this year as AbbVie's business remains strong with the cash continuing to pour in.
At 3.9%, this is the highest-yielding stock on this list, paying more than double the S&P 500 average of 1.7%. AbbVie is a solid long-term buy for both dividend and growth investors. 
Big-box retailer Costco may look underwhelming as a dividend stock given that its yield is a paltry 0.7%. But for dividend investors who want to buy a stock and not worry about it, this can be an underrated investment.
The company has paid a special dividend out to investors in particularly strong years. The most recent was a $10 per share dividend in 2020. Those types of payments won't happen every year, but they can make up for the low quarterly dividend payments. In essence, you're benefiting from the years when Costco does well.
It's a sound strategy because it means high dividend payments aren't becoming impediments to the company's growth, and if the business has a good year, you could be handsomely rewarded for holding on to the stock.
Costco's incredibly low payout ratio of 26% also makes it probable that the company will increase its dividend payments in the future as it has already been doing so thus far. Last year, the retailer raised its dividend by 14%. If Costco were to continue increasing its payouts at that rate, it would take approximately six years for its dividend to double in value. 
The company has generated $2.9 billion in free cash flow over the past four quarters, which is nearly twice as much as what it pays in dividends ($1.5 billion). Overall, Costco is a solid buy, as its business has generated growth amid inflation and a pandemic, demonstrating impressive resiliency.
Another stock with a low yield but lots of potential for increase in the future is Microsoft. The tech giant, known for its Windows operating system and Office suite of products, pays just 28% of profits out as dividends. It hasn't paid out special dividends like Costco has, but it has also been making generous increases to its dividend. Last year, Microsoft boosted its payout by 10% to $0.68. The yield now sits at around 1.1%.
Microsoft is a money-making machine, bringing in nearly $60 billion in free cash flow over its past four quarters. By comparison, it has paid less than $19 billion in dividends during that time frame. From both an earnings and cash flow standpoint, there's plenty of room for Microsoft to keep raising its dividend payments in the future.
The company also generates impressive profit margins of over 30%. That, combined with the company's endless pursuit of growth -- which includes its pending acquisition of video game maker Activision Blizzard and investment in ChatGPT maker OpenAI -- is why Microsoft is an exceptional dividend stock to buy and hold forever.
10 stocks we like better than AbbVieWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and AbbVie wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
David Jagielski has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Activision Blizzard, Costco Wholesale, Intel, and Microsoft. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2023 $57.50 calls on Intel, long January 2025 $45 calls on Intel, and short January 2025 $45 puts on Intel. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.