March 02, 2023 — 07:46 am EST

      Written by
                        Selena Maranjian for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The semiconductor industry is a critically important one and worth the consideration of every long-term stock investor. That said, if you conclude that you want to invest in semiconductor companies but don't know which ones to buy, consider plunking your money in a good exchange-traded fund (ETF) that's focused on semiconductor companies -- such as the SPDR S&P Semiconductor ETF (NYSEMKT: XSD).
First, let's define a term or two. If you're not familiar with ETFs, know that they are essentially mutual-fund-like investments that trade like stocks -- meaning you can buy or sell as little as a single share at any time during the trading day. An ETF's value will fluctuate throughout a trading day, as well, just like a stock's value will, while mutual fund values are only calculated once a day.
Each ETF contains a range of securities, as does a mutual fund. Many are broad-market index funds, tracking, for example, the S&P 500 index. Many others have narrower focuses, such as a particular region in the world, companies of a certain size, or companies within a certain industry -- such as semiconductors.
Semiconductors are a growth industry. They're in many, many things you use, both expected and unexpected things -- such as your smartphone, tablet, laptop, gaming console, car, camera, and very possibly even your refrigerator, washing machine, microwave oven, and light bulbs. As you can imagine, there will be many more chips in many more things as the years go by, ensuring long-term growth.
Indeed, the folks at Fortune Business Insights have forecasted that "the global semiconductor market is projected to grow from $573.44 billion in 2022 to $1,380.79 billion by 2029, at a [compound annual growth rate] of 12.2%."
Here are some (of many) things to know about the semiconductor industry:
Since it's not a simple matter to understand semiconductor technology deeply, enough to be able to evaluate which companies in the industry are most likely to thrive, it can make sense to invest in a wide range of them -- via an ETF. So consider the SPDR S&P Semiconductor ETF.
The ETF's performance is rather impressive, reflecting a burgeoning industry:
Over the past...
The ETF's average annual return
3 years
28.65%
5 years
22.91%
10 years
24.02%
15 years
17.14%
Source: Morningstar.com. 
That's enough to make your mouth water, right? Do remember that these are averages, though, and that the industry is cyclical. In 2022, for example, the ETF sank by nearly 31% (which is one reason it's so attractively priced today). In 2018, it dropped 6%. Those are the only down years in the past decade.
The ETF has an expense ratio (essentially an annual fee) of 0.35%, and recently sported a dividend yield of about 0.4%. It recently encompassed roughly 40 different stocks, with most of them representing a stake in the portfolio of between 2.5% and 3.5%. Here are the 10 top holdings, as of Feb. 27:
Any money spent on shares of this ETF will have you quickly invested in several dozen promising semiconductor companies. Take a closer look at the ETF to see if seems a good fit for your portfolio.
There are other semiconductor-focused ETFs, as well. If you consider others, look not only at their portfolios and performance, but also at their fees. The lower the fee, the smaller bite it will take from your assets.
10 stocks we like better than Spdr Series Trust-Spdr S&p Semiconductor ETFWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Spdr Series Trust-Spdr S&p Semiconductor ETF wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Selena Maranjian has positions in Spdr Series Trust-Spdr S&p Semiconductor ETF and Universal Display. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Nvidia. The Motley Fool recommends Cirrus Logic, Silicon Laboratories, Skyworks Solutions, Synaptics, and Universal Display. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.