March 16, 2023 — 02:06 pm EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


Below is Validea's guru fundamental report for IVERIC BIO INC (ISEE). Of the 22 guru strategies we follow,  ISEE rates highest using our Quantitative Momentum Investor model based on the published strategy of Wesley Gray. This momentum model looks for stocks with strong and consistent intermediate-term relative performance.
IVERIC BIO INC (ISEE) is a mid-cap value stock in the Biotechnology & Drugs industry. The rating using this strategy is 55% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of IVERIC BIO INC
ISEE Guru Analysis
ISEE Fundamental Analysis
More Information on Wesley Gray
Wesley Gray Portfolio
About Wesley Gray: Wesley Gray is the founder of Alpha Architect and the author (along with co-author Jack Vogel) of "Quantitative Momentum A Practitioner's Guide to Building a Momentum-Based Stock Selection System". He is also the author (along with co-author Tobias Carlisle) of "Quantitative Value: A Practitioner's Guide to Automating Intelligent Investment and Eliminating Behavioral Errors". He is an industry recognized expert in the application of quantitative investing strategies. Wes is also a former Marine and has his Phd from the Univerisity of Chicago, where he studied under Nobel Prize winner Eugene Fama.
Additional Research Links
Factor-Based Stock Portfolios
Factor-Based ETF Portfolios
Harry Browne Permanent Portfolio
Ray Dalio All Weather Portfolio
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.