March 01, 2023 — 02:34 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In afternoon trading on Wednesday, Utilities stocks are the worst performing sector, showing a 1.8% loss.  Within that group, Public Service Enterprise Group Inc (Symbol: PEG) and Alliant Energy Corp (Symbol: LNT) are two large stocks that are lagging, showing a loss of 2.8% and 2.7%, respectively.  Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLU), which is down 1.8% on the day, and down 9.48% year-to-date.  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc, meanwhile, is down 5.32% year-to-date, and Alliant Energy Corp, is down 9.08% year-to-date.  Combined, PEG and LNT make up approximately 4.5% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


The next worst performing sector is the Services sector, showing a 0.8% loss.  Among large Services stocks, Lowe's Companies Inc (Symbol: LOW) and Advance Auto Parts Inc (Symbol: AAP) are the most notable, showing a loss of 6.7% and 5.0%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Services stocks is the iShares U.S. Consumer Services ETF (IYC), which is down 1.3% in midday trading, and up 10.03% on a year-to-date basis.  Lowe's Companies Inc, meanwhile, is down 3.02% year-to-date, and Advance Auto Parts Inc, is down 9.12% year-to-date.  Combined, LOW and AAP make up approximately 2.7% of the underlying holdings of IYC.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Wednesday.  As you can see, two sectors are up on the day, while seven sectors are down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.