March 01, 2023 — 02:34 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the sectors faring best as of midday Wednesday, shares of Energy companies are outperforming other sectors, higher by 1.8%.  Within that group, Valero Energy Corp (Symbol: VLO) and EOG Resources, Inc. (Symbol: EOG) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 4.6% and 4.1%, respectively.  Among energy ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLE), which is up 1.6% on the day, and up 0.76% year-to-date.  Valero Energy Corp, meanwhile, is up 15.68% year-to-date, and EOG Resources, Inc., is down 4.79% year-to-date.  Combined, VLO and EOG make up approximately 8.0% of the underlying holdings of XLE.


The next best performing sector is the Materials sector, higher by 0.7%.  Among large Materials stocks, Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold (Symbol: FCX) and Celanese Corp (Symbol: CE) are the most notable, showing a gain of 4.8% and 3.1%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Materials stocks is the Materials Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLB), which is up 0.9% in midday trading, and up 6.43% on a year-to-date basis.  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold, meanwhile, is up 13.61% year-to-date, and Celanese Corp is up 17.89% year-to-date.  Combined, FCX and CE make up approximately 7.7% of the underlying holdings of XLB.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Wednesday.  As you can see, two sectors are up on the day, while seven sectors are down.




10 ETFs With Stocks That Insiders Are Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.