March 01, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
That sound you hear is Marc Benioff exhaling.
After yesterday's earnings report, which easily beat Wall Street's estimates, the Salesforce CEO is likely feeling a little less pressure from activist investors who have been circling him and the CRM company like a shiver of great white sharks.
"Ohana" means family, but Salesforce employees believe Benioff -- who uses the Hawaiian word as a company mantra -- has forgotten that. Like most tech firms during the pandemic, the Slack parent company went through an overhiring phase that quickly crumbled under its own weight. Last month, Benioff announced they were cutting 10% of the company's workforce, roughly 8,000 people. Plus, it's been scaling back on employee perks like in-house baristas and access to its 75-acre wellness retreat known as Trailblazer Ranch.
And in a shockingly not "Alright, Alright, Alright" revelation, The Wall Street Journal reported that Benioff's buddy and Failure to Launch star Matthew McConaughey was still on the company payroll at $10 million a year to star in commercials where he rhymes about workplace synergy and innovation. This is all on top of the fact that Salesforce's stock price has dropped nearly 50% since its November 2021 peak of $307 per share.
And now, shareholders are out for blood, trying to turn the outrigger canoe around:
Good Earnings: Salesforce's revenue was up 18% year-over-year, totaling $31.4 billion, and it's expected to grow to $34.5 billion next year. It closed the year with cash flow reaching $7.1 billion, which Benioff said was the highest in the company's history. So whatever discussion he needs to have with the likes of Elliott and Strive, it will probably go a lot smoother now that he comes bearing gifts -- and a Hawaiian lei.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.