March 01, 2023 — 03:58 pm EST

      Written by
                        Jeremy Bowman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Airbnb (NASDAQ: ABNB) were moving higher last month after the home-sharing platform beat estimates in its fourth-quarter earnings report and offered solid guidance for 2023.
After the stock soared on the report, it gave back some of those gains in the second half of February as investors responded to data that showed that inflation was still elevated, meaning the Federal Reserve was likely to continue raising interest rates.
According to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence, the stock finished the month up 11%, as the chart shows.

ABNB data by YCharts
There wasn't much company-specific news out on Airbnb aside from the earnings report, but the company's fourth-quarter results made it clear that the company is executing well and delivering solid growth in spite of the inflationary and recessionary economic climate.
Airbnb shares rose 13% on Feb. 15 after the fourth-quarter results came out.
Revenue in the quarter increased 24% to $1.9 billion, topping the consensus at $1.86 billion. Gross booking value rose 20% to $13.5 billion, and nights and experiences booked were up 20% to 88.2 million. 
As in prior quarters, Airbnb continued to demonstrate significant gains in leverage, with adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) jumping from $333 million to $574 million, and net income surging from $55 million to $319 million. That translated into earnings per share of $0.48, up from just $0.08 in the quarter a year ago and better than the analyst consensus at just $0.25.
Wall Street generally cheered the update, with several analysts raising their price targets and reaffirming their buy ratings on the stock.
In its guidance for the first quarter, the company said it continued to see strong demand including European guests booking summer travel earlier in the year, market share gains in Latin America, and an ongoing recovery in the Asia-Pacific region. 
For the first quarter, it expects revenue of $1.75 billion to $1.82 billion, up 16% to 21% from the quarter a year ago and better than estimates at $1.69 billion.
On the bottom line, the company said it expects to maintain its adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year, but for it to be down slightly in the first quarter due to increased marketing spending.
Airbnb's travel peers also reported strong fourth quarters and offered bullish guidance, showing that the travel sector remains resilient as it recovers from the pandemic.
That and its powerful high-margin business model should bode well for Airbnb in 2023. 
Find out why Airbnb is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Airbnb is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jeremy Bowman has positions in Airbnb. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.