March 01, 2023 — 03:34 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Clean Energy Fuels (NASDAQ: CLNE) fell as much as 17% in trading on Wednesday after the company reported fourth-quarter 2022 financial results. Shares are down 12.8% at 2:45 p.m. ET. 
Management said 54.4 million gallons of renewable natural gas were delivered in the quarter, up 21.2% from a year ago. And revenue increased from $91.9 million to $113.8 million. But the company's non-GAAP (adjusted) net income dropped from $6.4 million to $2 million, or a $0.06-per-share loss. 
Analysts were expecting a $0.01-per-share profit from Clean Energy Fuels so results were well short of that. After years of waiting for operating leverage to show up in the business, it's not clear when Clean Energy Fuels will ever generate a consistent profit and in 2023 management expects a loss of $105 million to $115 million. 
Higher natural gas prices and lower environmental credits hurt results, according to management. But that highlights the problems that Clean Energy Fuels faces long-term. It doesn't have a sustainable competitive advantage in the fuel market right now and is dependent on a commodity arbitrage to make the economics work. When commodity prices move away from the company, it loses money. 
Environmental credits are also not a sustainable source of revenue or earnings long-term. They will eventually go to zero or get competed away as more capacity is brought online. The business continues to show that it's tough to make money at a time when energy profits are at all-time highs, which is why I'm staying out of the stock today. 
10 stocks we like better than Clean Energy FuelsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Clean Energy Fuels wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Clean Energy Fuels. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.