March 16, 2023 — 01:23 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Keith Noonan for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Telos (NASDAQ: TLS) are crashing in Thursday's trading. The cybersecurity company's stock was down roughly 33% in the daily session as of 1 p.m. ET, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. 
Telos published its fourth-quarter earnings results before the market opened on March 16, delivering sales and earnings for the period that came in ahead of the market's expectations. But despite delivering top- and bottom-line beats, management's guidance spooked the market and is prompting big sell-offs for the stock. 
Image source: Getty Images.
Telos reported non-GAAP (adjusted) earnings per share of $0.05 on revenue of $47.34 million. The average analyst estimate had called for an adjusted per-share loss of $0.01 on revenue of $44.77 million. On the other hand, sales were still down roughly 26% year over year in the period, and management's guidance indicates that the business will likely continue to struggle this year. 
For the first quarter, the company anticipates sales to come in between $30 million and $33 million, suggesting an approximately 37% year-over-year decline at the midpoint of the target. Meanwhile, Telos is targeting full-year sales to be between $115 million and $140 million, suggesting a roughly 41% annual decline from the $216.9 million in revenue that it posted last year.  
2023 is shaping up to be a transition year for Telos, and the business is focused on trying to lay the groundwork for new growth initiatives next year and beyond. On the other hand, there's not much visibility on what comes next for the company. Telos is losing ground in its corner of the cybersecurity industry.
While the company can make efforts to streamline its operations and pursue cost-cutting initiatives to improve margins, it will eventually need to prove that it can stabilize revenue. For now, Telos' outlook remains highly speculative, and investors without high risk tolerance should take a cautious approach to the stock. 
10 stocks we like better than Telos CorporationWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Telos Corporation wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Keith Noonan has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.