March 01, 2023 — 12:46 pm EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of radio and podcasting company iHeartMedia (NASDAQ: IHRT) plunged as much as 39.7% in trading on Wednesday after the company reported fourth-quarter 2022 financial results. Shares recovered slightly by midday but are still down 23% as of noon E.T. 
On the surface, the numbers look good. Revenue was up 6% in the quarter to $1.1 billion, operating income jumped 41% to $173 million, and free cash flow was $165 million. But guidance is what has investors concerned. 
Management expects revenue to fall by the midsingle digits in the first quarter of 2023 and thinks adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) will be $80 million to $90 million, down from $316 million last quarter. The company seems to be in a tailspin as advertising spending slows. 
The big problem for iHeartMedia is that there's $5.4 billion of debt on the balance sheet, which is going to be tough to pay down if earnings are rising, but impossible if results are getting worse. 
Advertisers are moving to more digital forms of advertising, and that's simply not where iHeartMedia excels. The company still has a lot of legacy radio assets in a structural decline, and podcasts don't necessarily make sense at large companies like this. Smaller producers are more equipped to grow cost effectively without large sales staffs, using the digital nature of platforms like Spotify.
The cash flow looks great, but dig a little deeper and iHeartMedia's business is in long-term trouble. 
10 stocks we like better than iHeartMediaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and iHeartMedia wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Travis Hoium has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.