March 01, 2023 — 12:38 pm EST

      Written by
                        Danny Vena for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Health Catalyst (NASDAQ: HCAT) charged sharply higher Wednesday morning, surging as much as 13.7%. The rally seemed to lose stream as time when on, and as of 11:51 a.m. ET today, the stock was up 1.7%.
The catalyst that sent the healthcare data and analytics company higher was its quarterly financial results, which were better than investors had hoped.
For its fourth quarter, Health Catalyst generated revenue of $69.2 million, up 7% year over year. This resulted in an adjusted loss per share of $0.05, much improved from $0.19 in the prior-year quarter. 
To give those numbers context, analysts' consensus estimates were calling for revenue of $68.3 million and an adjusted loss per share of $0.11, so the company easily cleared both bars. 
The results were driven higher primarily by technology revenue that climbed 11%, though professional services revenue -- which tends to be lumpy -- declined 1%. Overall, the company's operating loss of $36 million improved by 18%, while its net loss improved 27%.
Health Catalyst also announced that Matthew Kolb, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Carle Health, would be joining its board of directors effective July 1. Furthermore, Carle Health will deepen its investment with a "meaningful purchase" of Health Catalyst shares on the open market.
For the first quarter, management is guiding for revenue of $71.3 million, an increase of roughly 5% year over year, along with adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) in a range of $1 million to $2.5 million, an increase of 161% at the midpoint. The forecast was slightly below expectations of $71.7 million, and investor enthusiasm faded in the wake of its tepid top-line guidance. 
In the earnings release, CEO Dan Burton noted that he had been buying shares over the past several months, estimating that he has become a top-20 shareholder. While there are plenty of reasons executives sell stock, there's only one reason they buy: because they believe the shares will go higher.
Investors should keep an eye on this up-and-comer, but given the current uncertainty, any share purchases should be a small part of a balanced portfolio.
10 stocks we like better than Health CatalystWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Health Catalyst wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Danny Vena has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.