March 01, 2023 — 12:03 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Cuka for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


SkyWater Technology (NASDAQ: SKYT), a $575 million small-cap stock, could be the next winner in your long-term investing portfolio. The company is a semiconductor foundry headquartered in Bloomington, Minnesota. SkyWater reported just over $200 million in 2022 revenues, and its projected to grow to $1 billion before the end of this decade, a 5x from here! When looking for stocks to buy now, due diligence is critical. The below video is an interview with President and CEO Thomas Sonderman, which provides a detailed background of the company, as well as its long-term growth prospects. 
*Stock prices used were the morning prices of March 1, 2023. The video was published on March 1, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than SkyWater TechnologyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and SkyWater Technology wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Cuka has positions in Axcelis Technologies, Indie Semiconductor, SiTime, and SkyWater Technology. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends SiTime. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Eric Cuka is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link, they will earn some extra money that supports their channel.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.