March 01, 2023 — 09:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Neil Rozenbaum for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In this video, I will talk about four interesting companies that are worth your attention, especially during these uncertain times. I chose a mix of companies in different industries that could provide significant upside for long-term investors. 
You might also be interested in the February picks.
*Stock prices used were from the trading day of Feb. 28, 2023. The video was published on Feb. 29, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than AlphabetWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Alphabet wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Neil Rozenbaum has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Adobe, Alphabet, Palo Alto Networks, and Wix.com. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $420 calls on Adobe and short January 2024 $430 calls on Adobe. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Neil is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.

The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.