March 01, 2023 — 08:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) has been one of the most successful companies in the world over the last 20 years, and it doesn't show any signs of stopping. iPhones continue improving, Macs are better than ever, and new accessories like AirPods and the Apple Watch have taken the market by storm. 
But what do smart investors know about Apple? Let's dig into why this company is so successful. 
Everything Apple does today stems from the iPhone. Not only did the iPhone generate $65.8 billion of the company's $117.2 billion in revenue in the fiscal first quarter of 2023 (which ended December 31, 2022), it drove a lot of the $20.8 billion in services revenue from the App Store, iCloud, and advertising. 
The iPhone has also been both the gateway to products like Macs, iPads, and accessories and the testing ground for new innovations that integrate the company's products more completely. And this level of integration is what sets Apple apart from the competition. 
Image source: Apple.
Apple has always been a unique company in that it integrates hardware with software. But over the last decade, it's taken the strategy to a new level. 
Apple now manufactures its own chips for the iPhone, the Mac, and even designs their smaller devices like AirPods and the Apple Watch in house. The software and hardware are integrated, but so are chips and other components. 
This allows Apple to make more efficient products for its specific use cases. Computers can last longer on a charge and be built to efficiently operate for most use cases and future functionality like incorporating AI models on the chip (something Apple is working on). 
The disparate PC and Android model of pulling together components from multiple suppliers and then tying them together with Android or Windows has advantages like cost and flexibility, but Apple is more concerned with a better user experience, and integration allows that to happen. 
Not only is Apple upgrading and introducing new products, it's also returning cash to shareholders at an incredible pace. Over the past year, it has returned over $100 billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends. 

AAPL Stock Buybacks (TTM) data by YCharts
This may be a sign of a maturing business that doesn't have major new projects to invest in, but Apple is also generating cash at a scale few companies have ever come close to. So returning cash is likely the best use of company funds, rather than chasing new markets that may never materialize (ahem, Meta). 
Apple isn't growing as quickly as it was a decade ago, but it's still a giant in technology. The company has an incredibly sticky business that starts with the iPhone and extends to the Mac and other products. I don't see its dominant position ending anytime soon, and that's why it's still one of the best stocks on the market today. 
10 stocks we like better than AppleWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Apple wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Travis Hoium has positions in Apple. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Apple and Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.