March 01, 2023 — 07:15 am EST

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro and Nicholas Rossolillo for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


In today's video, Jose Najarro and Nick Rossolillo discuss Shopify (NYSE: SHOP) and its significant changes in 2022, from gaining offline markets to expanding its solutions globally. During itsearnings call management shared some thoughts on Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN). Check out the short video to learn more, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of Feb. 28, 2023. The video was published on Feb. 28, 2023.


10 stocks we like better than ShopifyWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Shopify wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Jose Najarro has positions in Shopify. Nicholas Rossolillo has positions in Amazon.com and Shopify. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon.com and Shopify. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.