March 18, 2023 — 07:45 am EDT

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Earnings Yield Investor model based on the published strategy of Joel Greenblatt. This value model looks for companies with high return on capital and earnings yields.
BATH & BODY WORKS INC (BBWI) is a mid-cap value stock in the Retail (Specialty) industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joel Greenblatt changed from 70% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Bath & Body Works, Inc. is operating as a specialty retailer of home fragrance, body care products, soaps and sanitizer products. The Company's products offerings include fine fragrance mist, body lotion and body cream, 3-wick candles, home fragrance diffusers and liquid hand soap. The Company is operating approximately 1,787 stores and e-commerce sites in the United States and Canada. It is also operating more than 394 stores and 27 e-commerce sites in approximately 35 other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements. The Company offers its products under Bath & Body Works, White Barn, Aromatherapy and other brand names.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of BATH & BODY WORKS INC
BBWI Guru Analysis
BBWI Fundamental Analysis
TURNING POINT BRANDS INC (TPB) is a small-cap growth stock in the Tobacco industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joel Greenblatt changed from 50% to 90% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Turning Point Brands, Inc. is a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of branded consumer products. The Company sells a range of products to adult consumers consisting of staple products under the brands Zig-Zag and Stoker's. Its segments include Zig-Zag Products (Zig-Zag), Stoker's Products (Stoker's) and NewGen Products (NewGen). Zig-Zag principally market and distribute rolling papers, tubes, and related products, and finished cigars and make-your-own cigar wraps. The Stoker's manufactures and markets moist snuff tobacco (MST) and contract for and market loose leaf chewing tobacco products. NewGen markets and distributes liquid vapor products and certain other products without tobacco and/or nicotine; distribute a wide assortment of products to non-traditional retail via VaporBeast, and markets and distributes a wide assortment of products to individual consumers. Its products include Beech-Nut, Trophy, Havana Blossom, Durango, Tequila Sunrise, Fred's Choice, Tennessee and Chew.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of TURNING POINT BRANDS INC
TPB Guru Analysis
TPB Fundamental Analysis
Joel Greenblatt Portfolio
Top Joel Greenblatt Stocks
About Joel Greenblatt: In his 2005 bestseller The Little Book That Beats The Market, hedge fund manager Joel Greenblatt laid out a stunningly simple way to beat the market using two -- and only two -- fundamental variables. The "Magic Formula," as he called it, produced back-tested returns of 30.8 percent per year from 1988 through 2004, more than doubling the S&P 500's 12.4 percent return during that time. Greenblatt also produced exceptional returns as managing partner at Gotham Capital, a New York City-based hedge fund he founded. The firm averaged a remarkable 40 percent annualized return over more than two decades.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.