March 01, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        John Reese for                             
        




Validea ->


The following are today's upgrades for Validea's Earnings Yield Investor model based on the published strategy of Joel Greenblatt. This value model looks for companies with high return on capital and earnings yields.
PLAYTIKA HOLDING CORP (PLTK) is a mid-cap value stock in the Software & Programming industry. The rating according to our strategy based on Joel Greenblatt changed from 60% to 80% based on the firm’s underlying fundamentals and the stock’s valuation. A score of 80% or above typically indicates that the strategy has some interest in the stock and a score above 90% typically indicates strong interest.
Company Description: Playtika Holding Corp is a developer of mobile games. The Company's Playtika Boost Platform provides live game operations services and a proprietary technology to support portfolio of games. The Company owns and manages 15 games. It includes both casual and casino-themed games. The Company also provides free-to-play mobile games. The Company distributes its games through various web and mobile platforms such as Apple, Facebook, Google, and other web and mobile platforms. The Company's games include Slotomania, Bingo Blitz, House of Fun, Caesars Slots, World Series of Poker, Best Fiends, June's Journey, Solitaire Grand Harvest, and Board Kings. The Company's games are available on iOS App Store and Google Play Store.
The following table summarizes whether the stock meets each of this strategy's tests. Not all criteria in the below table receive equal weighting or are independent, but the table provides a brief overview of the strong and weak points of the security in the context of the strategy's criteria.

Detailed Analysis of PLAYTIKA HOLDING CORP
PLTK Guru Analysis
PLTK Fundamental Analysis
Joel Greenblatt Portfolio
Top Joel Greenblatt Stocks
About Joel Greenblatt: In his 2005 bestseller The Little Book That Beats The Market, hedge fund manager Joel Greenblatt laid out a stunningly simple way to beat the market using two -- and only two -- fundamental variables. The "Magic Formula," as he called it, produced back-tested returns of 30.8 percent per year from 1988 through 2004, more than doubling the S&P 500's 12.4 percent return during that time. Greenblatt also produced exceptional returns as managing partner at Gotham Capital, a New York City-based hedge fund he founded. The firm averaged a remarkable 40 percent annualized return over more than two decades.
About Validea: Validea is aninvestment researchservice that follows the published strategies of investment legends. Validea offers both stock analysis and model portfolios based on gurus who have outperformed the market over the long-term, including Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham, Peter Lynch and Martin Zweig. For more information about Validea, click here
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.