February 28, 2023 — 06:04 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Investors were pleased, if not overwhelmingly so, with Ocugen's (NASDAQ: OCGN) latest set of quarterly results on Tuesday. The biotech published its fourth-quarter and full-year figures that morning, in addition to providing a business update. In reaction, the market bid up its stock by 2% on the day. That bettered the 0.3% slump of the S&P 500 index.
Ocugen is a clinical-stage biotech that has no revenue at the moment. It does, of course, incur expenses developing new products, and these totaled almost $24.2 million for the quarter. 
Combined with other income, this filtered down into a net loss of $21.9 million ($0.10 per share), which was notably deeper than the $14.6 million deficit of the same quarter of 2021 but in line with analyst estimates. 
Investors were more likely cheered by Ocugen's clinical update, which showed encouraging progress in certain pipeline programs.
For example, the day before the release was published, the company submitted an Investigational New Drug (IND) application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), with the aim of initiating a phase 1 trial of a treatment that targets diabetic macular edema, a potentially serious eye disorder.
Ocugen's stock price performance mirrored the optimism expressed by management. In the earnings release, the company quoted CEO Shankar Musunuri as saying, "We continue to grow and advance as a diversified biotechnology organization, as reflected in our accomplishments of 2022."
Masanuri pointed to the company's efforts in the fight against the still-raging COVID, plus its programs targeting macular degeneration and Stargardt disease, two other eye afflictions. 
10 stocks we like better than OcugenWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Ocugen wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.