February 28, 2023 — 04:02 pm EST

      Written by
                        Lee Samaha for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares in industrial conglomerate General Electric (NYSE: GE) beat the market today, rising 2% by midday. The move came after RBC Capital analyst Deane Dray raised his price target on the stock from $87 to $93; the stock currently trades at about $85. 
It's a confident move by Dray, considering that GE will hold an investor conference on March 9.  Wall Street analysts often wait until after such an event before changing price targets and ratings. 
CEO Larry Culp's recent presentations have given confidence to investors and the analyst community. 
At the recent Barclays Industrial Select Conference, Culp had positive comments about all three of GE's remaining businesses.
In aerospace, he confirmed an expectation for 15% earnings growth with flat profit margins compared to 2022. That's an excellent result considering GE Aerospace sees LEAP engine volumes ramping up by 50% in 2023. Aircraft engines are typically sold at a loss, so the increase in production is dilutive to profit margins; the real money is made in multidecades of aftermarket sales.
On the military side of aerospace, Culp said GE was off to a good start to 2023, and internal improvements "will yield sequential output improvements as we go through the year, a year where we should see high-single-digit growth" in military service obligations revenue. 
Lastly, in power and renewables (to be combined as Vernova), Culp said that the pressure on energy caused by the war in Ukraine had changed the "policy discussions" on investment in gas, nuclear, and renewables, making it "in many respects fundamentally better than it was 12 months ago. And that's a good thing for Vernova's prospects going forward."
All attention will be focused on the investor conference in March, particularly what GE will say about 2024 when Vernova will be spun off -- something to look out for. 
10 stocks we like better than General ElectricWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and General Electric wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Lee Samaha has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.