February 28, 2023 — 02:07 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


A company's own top management tend to have the best inside view into the business, so when company officers make major buys, investors are wise to take notice.  Presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money — maybe they find the stock very undervalued, or maybe they see exciting progress within the company, or maybe both.  So in this series we look at the largest insider buys by the ''top brass'' over the trailing six month period, one of which was a total of $149.4K by Stephanie Ferris, Chief Executive Officer at Fidelity National Information Services Inc (Symbol: FIS).
	



Ferris's average cost works out to $66.71/share. In trading on Tuesday, bargain hunters could buy shares of Fidelity National Information Services Inc (Symbol: FIS) and achieve a cost basis lower than Ferris, with shares changing hands as low as $63.63 per share.  Shares of Fidelity National Information Services Inc were changing hands at $63.96 at last check, trading off about 0.8% on Tuesday.  The chart below shows the one year performance of FIS shares, versus its 200 day moving average:














Looking at the chart above, FIS's low point in its 52 week range is $56.53 per share, with $106.65 as the 52 week high point — that compares with a last trade of $63.96.



The current annualized dividend paid by Fidelity National Information Services Inc is $2.08/share, currently paid in quarterly installments, and its most recent dividend has an upcoming ex-date of 03/09/2023.  Below is a long-term dividend history chart for FIS, which can be of good help in judging whether the most recent dividend with approx. 3.2% annualized yield is likely to continue.
			











Click here to find out which other top insider buys by the ''top brass'' you need to know about »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.