February 28, 2023 — 12:37 pm EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of LivePerson (NASDAQ: LPSN) are tumbling today, down by 14.2% as of 11:18 a.m. ET, after the company announced it was rescheduling its fourth-quarter earnings release.
The customer engagement software provider had said two weeks ago it would be releasing its financial results on March 1, but now the day before it was supposed to do so, it has filed an extension with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to delay its 10-K report until March 16, at which time it will issue its earnings and hold a video webcast of the conference call.
Image source: Getty Images.
LivePerson said the reason for the delay was so it could "perform additional review and testing of revenue recognition" related to its acquisition of precision healthcare company WildHealth for $22 million last year. It had canceled a program WildHealth offered because Medicare suspended payments for it pending a government review.
Investors tend not to like when companies delay filing their financial reports because it often signals deeper problems at the business, though that does not seem to be the case here. However, LivePerson did not detail which program it canceled or when Medicare suspended payments for it. 
LivePerson noted that if it files its 10-K within the 15-day grace period allowed, which its extension would be within, then the SEC will still deem the filing to be "timely."
Companies are required to be timely, and willfully not filing forms could lead to enforcement, though it's rare businesses that are overdue see any substantial penalties for being so.
10 stocks we like better than LivePersonWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and LivePerson wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends LivePerson. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.