February 28, 2023 — 11:38 am EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of The Beauty Health Company (NASDAQ: SKIN) (BHC) are running 10.7% higher at 10:39 a.m. ET on Tuesday morning after the skin care company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analyst expectations on the top and bottom lines.
The BHC also announced it was making an acquisition: that it would be buying, for an undisclosed amount, SkinStylus, a manufacturer of a Food and Drug Administration-approved microneedling device.
Image source: Getty Images.
BHC describes Hydrafacial as a "a patented vortex-fusion delivery system to cleanse, extract, and hydrate the skin with proprietary solutions and serums," or something similar to a microdermabrasion, but pairs it with hydrating serums. It reportedly provides brighter skin after treatment without the redness and "downtime" associated with microdermabrasions.
Revenue in the fourth quarter rose 26% to $98.1 million, with adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of $16.3 million for the fourth quarter, or $0.05 per share, a 92% increase compared to the year-ago period. Wall Street had been looking for $94.6 million in revenue and $0.04 per share in profits.
The Beauty Health Company is looking to expand by creating a platform of related products and services. The SkinStylus acquisition is part of that strategy. Microneedling is a nonsurgical procedure that uses an array of tiny needles to create microscopic punctures in the skin that reportedly stimulate the body to produce collagen and results in firmer, smoother skin.
The device is currently approved for use on surgical or traumatic hypertrophic scars on the abdomen in adults aged 22 years and older. BHC wants to eventually earn clearance for additional indications and to take it international.
10 stocks we like better than Beauty HealthWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Beauty Health wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.