February 28, 2023 — 11:05 am EST

      Written by
                        Rich Smith for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


On a basically flat day for stock markets Tuesday, shares of artificial intelligence (AI) stock C3.ai (NYSE: AI) are doing better than most -- up 3.2% as of 10:30 a.m. ET. And according to the market watchers at StreetInsider, there's one reason and one reason only that C3 stock might be doing so well today.
Stock options traders are buying calls 4.5 times more heavily than they're buying puts today. In other words, they're betting heavily that C3.ai stock will go up after earnings, and not down.
But why?
In just a couple of days -- on Thursday, March 2, after close of trading -- C3.ai stock will report its fiscal 2023 third-quarter earnings results. Judging from the actions of the options traders, they're feeling pretty optimistic that C3.ai is going to beat expectations on Thursday.  
They may even be right.
After all, it's not like Wall Street analysts have set a high bar for C3's results this quarter. According to Yahoo! Finance estimates, C3.ai collected only $64.2 million in revenue in Q3, which would be 8% less than a year ago. "Earnings" for the unprofitable AI company, meanwhile, will be less than zero. Indeed, with a $0.22-per-share loss predicted, losses for C3 look set to triple year over year.
In other words, analysts are predicting a train wreck quarter for C3.ai stock. And since that's what's being expected, anything better than an abject disaster could qualify as beating estimates, and set the stage for this stock to soar. Quarterly losses could literally double year over year and traders would consider that good news.
In fact, even if C3.ai reports lousy results, there could still be good news in Thursday's report, because in addition to telling investors how much money it lost in Q3, C3.ai will probably give guidance for how much money it hopes to earn in the future. In that regard, the hype surrounding artificial intelligence continues unabated, with Axios reporting yesterday that companies are "scrambling" to build AI into their tech, and Business Insider reporting that Meta Platforms in particular will incorporate AI functions into WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, and Instagram.    
Granted, there's no assurance C3.ai's products will be chosen to facilitate adding AI to tech company offerings -- or even if they are, that this will generate enough revenue to turn C3 profitable anytime soon. To the contrary, most analysts warn that C3.ai stock won't earn even pro forma profits before 2026 at the earliest.  
Just the hope that C3.ai will find a way to profit from the AI revolution, however, could be enough to keep the momentum going at this momentum stock.
10 stocks we like better than C3.aiWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and C3.ai wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Randi Zuckerberg, a former director of market development and spokeswoman for Facebook and sister to Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Rich Smith has positions in Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool recommends C3.ai. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.