February 28, 2023 — 08:30 am EST

      Written by
                        Cole Tretheway for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Kevin O'Leary, investor and Shark Tank star, has made millions off his investments. On his podcast and social media accounts, he spreads investment advice. He took to Twitter to share with investors his thoughts on potentially high-risk investments.
Kevin O'Leary says, "You can have proof of concept, but as an investor, any product where there's a significant amount of time required to educate consumers makes me cautious."

Bonus Offer: Score up to $600 when you open this brokerage account
Discover: Best online stock brokers for beginners

Generally, financial gurus like O'Leary say this because education is expensive. It's a tax on company profits. Companies must spend limited marketing dollars to convince customers to buy their products.
What's more, a product that requires a significant amount of time to educate consumers is a yellow flag. It means the market may not be ready for the product. History contains many examples of products that flopped because companies launched them too early.
Consider Google Glass, the breakthrough product no one ever bought. Despite the support of Alphabet, one of the wealthiest companies on the planet, it failed to sell. Casual consumers preferred the convenience of a smartphone over the expensive and battery-heavy Glass.
Not necessarily. Some companies do so successfully. Take Tesla, for example. Six years ago, hardly anyone drove its cars, and many people doubted the benefits of electric cars. Since then, the share price has more than quintupled, and Tesla continues to gain share of the vehicle market.
Apple is another company that created a product no one knew they wanted, only for that product to become wildly popular. They released the iPod in 2001. It took six years and the release of the iPhone for Apple to kickstart the smartphone revolution.
One thing to keep in mind is that investments in innovative companies can take a while to season. Investors may wait years before seeing returns on these kinds of investments. When investing in innovative companies, prepare to hold them for the long term.
The public market is full of innovative companies. The best brokerages offer investors the power to purchase ownership of public companies for low fees and other perks. Do your due diligence before investing in companies that must educate customers; many fail, and products flop.
Kevin O'Leary also plugs a private investment vehicle StartEngine. Investors can invest in private companies through the third-party platform. However, this is risky. Investments can be highly illiquid, and there's no guarantee private companies will ever go public.
Consider sticking to innovative companies in the public market. Invest in an ETF to diversify high-risk investments. By investing a small percentage of your portfolio in more than 25 companies and holding for five or more years, you maximize your chances of earning returns on your investments.
We pored over the data and user reviews to find the select rare picks that landed a spot on our list of the best stock brokers. Some of these best-in-class picks pack in valuable perks, including $0 stock and ETF commissions. Get started and review our best stock brokers.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool’s board of directors. Cole Tretheway has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Apple, and Tesla. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long March 2023 $120 calls on Apple and short March 2023 $130 calls on Apple. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.