February 28, 2023 — 07:30 am EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


Looking at the underlying holdings of the ETFs in our coverage universe at ETF Channel, we have compared the trading price of each holding against the average analyst 12-month forward target price, and computed the weighted average implied analyst target price for the ETF itself. 	For the Vanguard Russell 1000 ETF (Symbol: VONE), we found that the implied analyst target price for the ETF based upon its underlying holdings is $207.78 per unit.



With VONE trading at a recent price near $181.83 per unit, that means that analysts see 14.27% upside for this ETF looking through to the average analyst targets of the underlying holdings.   Three of VONE's underlying holdings with notable upside to their analyst target prices are KKR & Co Inc (Symbol: KKR), Coinbase Global Inc (Symbol: COIN), and Roku Inc (Symbol: ROKU). Although KKR has traded at a recent price of $55.65/share, the average analyst target is 27.17% higher at $70.77/share. Similarly, COIN has 20.19% upside from the recent share price of $58.96 if the average analyst target price of $70.86/share is reached, and analysts on average are expecting ROKU to reach a target price of $74.59/share, which is 19.63% above the recent price of $62.35. Below is a twelve month price history chart comparing the stock performance of KKR, COIN, and ROKU:  











Below is a summary table of the current analyst target prices discussed above:



Are analysts justified in these targets, or overly optimistic about where these stocks will be trading 12 months from now? Do the analysts have a valid justification for their targets, or are they behind the curve on recent company and industry developments? A high price target relative to a stock's trading price can reflect optimism about the future, but can also be a precursor to target price downgrades if the targets were a relic of the past. These are questions that require further investor research.  



10 ETFs With Most Upside To Analyst Targets »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.