March 16, 2023 — 12:17 pm EDT

      Written by
                        Jim Halley for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of MacroGenics (NASDAQ: MGNX) were up 14.5% in early trading Thursday thanks to a strong 2022 earnings report that it released after the market closed Wednesday. The biotech company focuses on monoclonal antibody-based therapeutics to treat cancer. Its stock is down more than 18% over the past 12 months, but up more than 8% so far in 2023.
For the full year, MacroGenics had revenue of $151.9 million, compared to $77.4 million in 2021. It also cut its net loss to $119.8 million, compared to its loss of $202.1 million in 2021. The company's revenues came from sales of breast cancer therapy Margenza, as well as agreements with various collaborators, including a $60 million milestone payment from Provention Bio for the approval of teplizumab in the fourth quarter, and $30 million in milestone payments from Incyte related to progress on retifanlimab, all of which Chief Financial Officer Jim Karrels mentioned in the company's fourth-quarter earnings call.
The fourth quarter was the first profitable quarter for the company since Q4 2017. Its net income was $12.8 million ($0.21 per share), compared to a loss of $58.02 million (a loss of $0.30 per share) in the same quarter a year ago.
This was also the second consecutive late-week surge for MacroGenics stock. Last week, it rose on Thursday after management announced its sale of royalty interest on Tzield to DRI Healthcare Trust. 
Investors will want to see the company follow up this profitable quarter with another. They will also want to see how two crucial clinical trials turn out. MacroGenics began a phase 2 trial of vobramitamab duocarmazine on patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) late last year. It also plans a phase 2 study of Lorigerlimab in the second half of 2023 as a combination therapy with docetaxel on mCRPC patients who have not yet had chemotherapy.
10 stocks we like better than MacroGenicsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and MacroGenics wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
Jim Halley has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Incyte. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.