February 28, 2023 — 06:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Keithen Drury for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Few companies have rocketed out of the gate more powerfully than Airbnb (NASDAQ: ABNB) in 2023 -- the stock is up about 45% year to date. However, that quick jump might make investors think Airbnb has risen too fast.
Is that the case? Or is there another reason for Airbnb's stellar performance to start 2023? Let's find out.
Airbnb is the industry leader in short-term rentals for travelers. It has a global reach, and customers booked 90 million nights booked in the fourth quarter. In fact, Q4 saw the highest number of active bookers in the company's history, demonstrating that its platform has appeal even during economic uncertainty.
To start 2022, I'd argue that Airbnb was significantly undervalued based on its growth rate.

Data source:  YCharts.
A ratio of 16 times free cash flow (FCF) is too cheap for a company that grew FCF by 21% in Q4. The market realized this and started picking up shares at the beginning of 2023.
But what set off Airbnb's rise was its strong fourth-quarter results.
As mentioned, Airbnb saw huge demand in Q4, which helped the company deliver $1.9 billion in revenue, up 24%, and the most profitable Q4 ever, with $319 million in net income. Airbnb's 23% full-year profit margin is better than its competitors' gross margins.
Data source: YCharts.
Airbnb expects to continue this success into 2023. Thanks to a strong backlog, management projected revenue growth of about 19% for the first quarter. For the full year, Airbnb expects its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) margin to be roughly equal to 2022's value of 35%, so investors don't need to worry about profitability falling.
That's a solid outlook for a year many investors didn't expect would be great for Airbnb. As a result, the stock rose more than 13% on the day after the company reported earnings.
All of this is excellent news for existing shareholders, but what about those looking to add to their position or establish one?
Wall Street analysts on average expect rapid earnings growth for Airbnb during the next four years.
Data source: Nasdaq.
That's a strong earnings forecast, and if Airbnb can hit these projections, investors shouldn't worry about the stock's most recent run-up. Valuation matters when you purchase a stock, but how much it matters decreases over time because business results power long-term performance.
So can investors buy Airbnb confidently right now? I'd say yes. The company has proved that it can thrive in less-than-perfect conditions, and it should deliver outstanding results as the economy recovers. Investors will need to watch Airbnb's results throughout 2023 to ensure it doesn't deviate from 2022's performance, but there are no indications that will happen.
Despite the run-up, if you're committed to holding Airbnb's stock for three to five years, right now could be an excellent time to take a position.
Find out why Airbnb is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Airbnb is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Keithen Drury has positions in Airbnb. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Airbnb. The Motley Fool recommends Hyatt Hotels and Marriott International. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.