February 27, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
When it comes to internet connectivity in Europe, too many cooks are spoiling the broadband broth.
Telecom experts and industry leaders believe Europe has too many mobile networks and say consolidating the myriad companies would help quickly expand 5G coverage, the latest and fastest global wireless standard in the internet of things.
The Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, kicked off Monday, and consolidation will certainly be a big topic of discussion. Börje Ekholm, CEO of Swedish telecom giant Ericsson, said having too many operators is unsustainable. "The big problem in Europe is really that our customers can simply not afford to build out the networks and I think that is going to hurt European competitiveness long term," he told CNBC.
In the US, mobile connectivity to pretty much all of the country is handled by Verizon, T-Mobile, and AT&T. Even smaller brands like Cricket Wireless and Mint Mobile (the Ryan Reynolds one) are actually owned by the bigger names and use their infrastructure. In China, people can choose between three different carriers, all of which are owned by the federal government.
The landscape in Europe, however, is a lot different:
Anti-Monopoly: But it might be a while before the folk at Deutsche Telekom and Orange can start buying up all the little guys. EU regulators are unfailingly protective of competition, so mass consolidation is an iffy proposition. In 2016, the European Commission blocked CK Hutchison's $12.6 billion acquisition of Telefonica's British mobile unit O2, saying it would limit consumer choice, raise prices, and reduce service quality.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.