February 27, 2023 — 04:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Natasha Gabrielle for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Most of us can agree that food delivery app services improve our lives. Some days it's more convenient to get delivery than to pick up an order yourself. But did you know that DoorDash can do more than satisfy your late-night pizza cravings? The company now offers package pickup services for an affordable fee. This new offering could help you save time and reduce your list of errands to run. Find out more about this exciting news.
At the beginning of 2023, DoorDash launched a new package pickup service. The brand hopes this service will offer more convenience to busy consumers. After all, with the popularity of online shopping, frequent trips to the post office and other carriers can be time-consuming. Now, DoorDash can run some of your errands for you.
Here's how it works: A Dasher will pick up your packages for you and deliver them to a USPS, UPS, or FedEx store. Customers can get up to five packages picked up in one order -- as long as they're being delivered to the same carrier.
Here's how much it costs: This service costs $5 for regular DoorDash users or $3 for DashPass members.
Are you interested in giving this package pickup service a try? Here's what you need to do:
Note: Each package must be under 30 pounds and worth less than $500.
This unique service can make your hectic life less stressful -- and the best part is it doesn't cost a lot, so you can continue to honor your personal finance goals. If you're already using DoorDash for your food delivery needs, you may want to take advantage of this new package pickup service to make your life even easier.
Some credit card users can score a free DashPass membership for $0 for a limited time. Many credit cards include delivery app benefits as a card perk. If you have the right card in your wallet, you can try this service for free. DashPass can help you save money on delivery and service fees and make it cheaper to get your packages picked up. Check to see if any of your rewards credit cards offer this perk so you can get more from DoorDash.
It's always important to consider your current financial situation before spending money on extra services like this. But sometimes convenience is well worth the additional expense. If you have a jam-packed schedule and want to reduce your trips to the post office, you may want to consider using services like this so you can spend more time doing what you love.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Natasha Gabrielle has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends DoorDash. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.