February 27, 2023 — 04:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
In August 2020, the average 30-year mortgage rate fell to under 3%. Since I had a higher interest rate than that on my existing mortgage loan, I decided to jump on the opportunity to refinance. And at first, my thinking was that doing so would lower my monthly payments.
But then I decided to refinance in a manner that would raise my monthly payments. And I'm really happy I did.
While mortgage rates were way down for 30-year loans at the time I decided to refinance, they were even lower for 15-year loans. So I reached out to some refinance lenders, crunched the numbers, and realized that refinancing to a 15-year mortgage would raise my monthly payments by about $300.
But that's a good thing. While I'm spending more money each month on my mortgage payments now than I was a few years ago, I'm also on track to pay off the loan much sooner. At the time of my refinance, I had about 22 years left on my mortgage. So this cuts that repayment period by seven years.
Also, I'm saving myself a boatload of interest by virtue of both having a lower interest rate on my home loan and having a shorter time frame for paying it off. That's money I can use for other purposes, like investing.

More: Check out our picks for the best mortgage lenders
For many people, the lure of refinancing is rooted in the opportunity to spend less money on housing payments each month. But in some cases, refinancing to a shorter-term loan than what you have can make a lot of sense.
Of course, if you're going to go this route, you'll need to make sure you can swing those higher monthly payments. I ran the numbers carefully before committing to spending an extra $300 a month on my mortgage. But because I specifically bought a house that was under my budget in the first place and made a 50% down payment on it, I knew I had the leeway to spend a little more on my home and still not struggle.
Now that said, no sooner did I raise my monthly mortgage payments when my property tax bill rose. That was a little stressful. But it was also something I was anticipating given that property values were rising. And because I accounted for that when crunching my numbers, it didn't create a problem, thankfully. But if you're thinking of raising your mortgage payments, make sure to leave yourself wiggle room in case another related expense happens to increase on you at the same time.
Of course, these days, mortgage rates are still pretty high, so it's not the ideal time to adopt the strategy I pursued in the summer of 2020. But if rates dip back down, it's a strategy you may want to consider yourself. This especially holds true if paying off your home sooner rather than later is important to you.
Our experts vetted the most popular offers to land on the select picks that are worthy of a spot in your wallet. These best-in-class cards pack in rich perks, such as big sign-up bonuses, long 0% intro APR offers, and robust rewards. Get started today with our recommended credit cards.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.