February 27, 2023 — 03:29 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


The worst performing sector as of midday Monday is the Utilities sector, showing a 0.1% loss.  Within that group, Alliant Energy Corp (Symbol: LNT) and AES Corp (Symbol: AES) are two large stocks that are lagging, showing a loss of 1.8% and 1.6%, respectively.  Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (Symbol: XLU), which is flat on the day on the day, and down 5.56% year-to-date.  Alliant Energy Corp, meanwhile, is down 5.65% year-to-date, and AES Corp, is down 10.81% year-to-date.  Combined, LNT and AES make up approximately 3.1% of the underlying holdings of XLU.


The next worst performing sector is the Financial sector, higher by 0.2%.  Among large Financial stocks, The Charles Schwab Corporation (Symbol: SCHW) and Camden Property Trust (Symbol: CPT) are the most notable, showing a loss of 1.7% and 1.2%, respectively.  One ETF closely tracking Financial stocks is the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLF), which is up 0.5% in midday trading, and up 4.38% on a year-to-date basis.  The Charles Schwab Corporation, meanwhile, is down 3.01% year-to-date, and Camden Property Trust is up 3.89% year-to-date.  SCHW makes up approximately 3.1% of the underlying holdings of XLF.


Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:













Here's a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Monday.  As you can see, eight sectors are up on the day, while one sector is down.




25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.