February 27, 2023 — 03:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Multi-generational living can have benefits for all parties involved. Older generations can enjoy the company of their children or other younger family members, can form close relationships with grandkids, can stave off the loneliness of old age, and can get help with their own needs as they get older. And younger generations may get financial assistance, help with childcare for their kids, and guidance from their parents or other older relatives.
But before buying a place and jumping into a multi-generational household, there are a few key issues you need to address -- including the following.
There are different arrangements for multi-generational living. One option is a shared single family home. Another is a duplex or similar style of two-family home. A third option is a main house with an in-law apartment either separate or attached to the main property.
These different options come with differing cost structures and differing levels of privacy. You'll want to think about your home-buying budget and what would actually work best in terms of the lifestyle that you want.
One big benefit of multi-generational living is that it can be cheaper for members of both generations since you combine the financial power of both households. The older generation may have more money saved for a down payment, for example. And younger members of the family may have more money to devote to monthly mortgage payments.

More: Check out our picks for the best mortgage lenders
Before you move forward, though, you'll want to understand exactly how the finances will work and make sure everyone is on the same page. WIll you split the mortgage payment? Will all of the parties be co-borrowers, or will one person be on the mortgage and collect rent from the others?
There are a number of different ways you could split up the costs, and you need to discuss all of the details. Think, too, about things like utility payments, home repairs, and furnishings -- especially if you'll all be sharing one connected space. You don't want to move in, find out you have very different expectations about cost sharing, and end up in money fights all the time because of it.
Finally, you'll want to discuss what you think living together in a multi-generation household will look like. This can include addressing issues such as:
By addressing all of these issues upfront, you can avoid a lot of stress and make sure your shared living arrangements will really work well for all parties.
Our experts vetted the most popular offers to land on the select picks that are worthy of a spot in your wallet. These best-in-class cards pack in rich perks, such as big sign-up bonuses, long 0% intro APR offers, and robust rewards. Get started today with our recommended credit cards.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.