February 27, 2023 — 02:12 pm EST

      Written by
                        Scott Levine for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Unable to charge up investors' enthusiasm, electric vehicle (EV) stock Fisker (NYSE: FSR) had fallen 22% from the start of 2023 through the end of Friday's trading session. Today, however, the stock is roaring back thanks to the company's optimistic outlook on 2023 that it shared during its fourth-quarter 2022 earnings report this morning.
As of 12:35 p.m. ET on Monday, shares of Fisker were up 27.5%.
A loss per share of $0.54 was worse than analysts' expectations of a fourth-quarter 2022 loss of $0.42. But investors don't seem as interested in the rearview mirror as they do with the road ahead.
Management reaffirmed its production target of 42,000 vehicles for 2023. While it didn't provide a revenue forecast, management issued other financial guidance for 2023 including a gross margin of 8% to 12% and the potential to achieve positive earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.
Besides the auspicious forecast, investors are likely responding to news that the company cotinues to receive favorable interest from customers. As of Feb. 24, Fisker had reservations and orders of 65,000. This is a modest increase from the 62,000 as of Oct. 31, 2022, but juxtaposed with the declining orders that EV peer Lucid Group (NASDAQ: LCID) recently reported, investors are undoubtedly happy with Fisker's report.
It's not surprising that investors' enthusiasm for Fisker is revving up today after management's bullish outlook on 2023. It's crucial for EV investors to remember, though, that there are plenty of potholes that the company might encounter in the coming months, including supply chain constraints and production delays, that could hinder this forecast. Consequently, only those with a comfortable tolerance for risk should consider parking Fisker in their portfolios.
10 stocks we like better than FiskerWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Fisker wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Scott Levine has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.