February 27, 2023 — 01:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
In the next year or so, I hope to buy a new house and move into a new neighborhood. This will be my fourth move in around a decade and I am hoping not to have to do it again any time soon since it is a hassle to buy and sell houses and to apply for new mortgage loans each time I relocate.
SInce I want to love the next property I buy and ideally be able to stay there for a long time, there are a few things I am doing to try to maximize the chances I end up happy with my new place.
Ideally, by following these steps, I'll be able to find a house that I can stay in for a long time.
We're hopeful that by employing these strategies, we'll ensure we get a great house in the area of the neighborhood that works well for us.
These techniques work well for us because we know what general area we want to be in and we're pretty close to it already. If you're moving from long distances or have tons of potential places you may want to live, it will be a little harder for you to implement them.

More: Check out our picks for the best mortgage lenders
But when you do find a house you think you like, testing out your commute and visiting it a few times before you make a final offer could help you avoid a decision you seriously regret.
Our experts vetted the most popular offers to land on the select picks that are worthy of a spot in your wallet. These best-in-class cards pack in rich perks, such as big sign-up bonuses, long 0% intro APR offers, and robust rewards. Get started today with our recommended credit cards.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.