February 27, 2023 — 12:20 pm EST

      Written by
                        Rich Duprey for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Teladoc Health (NYSE: TDOC) were falling 2.9% at 11:13 a.m. ET Monday mornings after more analysts lowered their price target on the online virtual healthcare specialist.
Analysts at both Deutsche Bank (NYSE: DB) and JPMorgan Chase (NYSE: JPM) dropped their one-year price targets on Teladoc, with the former going from $31 per share to $27 per share and the latter going to $33 per share from $35 per share.
Image source: Getty Images.
Deutsche Bank analyst George Hill maintained his hold rating on the company, while JP Morgan's Lisa Gill kept her neutral rating.
Teladoc had been primed to benefit from pandemic-era lockdowns and hadn't counted on consumers being so ready to return to in-office doctor visits. Teladoc lets patients seamlessly schedule online visits with doctors for consultations without ever having to leave the house.
Membership rolls shot higher during lockdowns with Teladoc adding 15 million people in 2020; it added only 1.8 million in 2021. Now new memberships are starting to pick back up again. But Teladoc's Livongo Health acquisition imploded, and it was forced to write down almost the entire cost of the purchase last year, taking a $13.4 billion charge to goodwill, or $83 per share.
Management reported a pretty solid fourth-quarter performance, but its guidance for the coming first quarter suggested growth would not be robust. The full year seems to be on track for gains, but the dip in the road expected for the short term has many taking a wait-and-see approach to the virtual healthcare specialist.
10 stocks we like better than Teladoc HealthWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Teladoc Health wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
JPMorgan Chase is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Rich Duprey has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends JPMorgan Chase and Teladoc Health. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.