February 27, 2023 — 11:10 am EST

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, Billy Duberstein for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Nvidia (NASDAQ: NVDA) reported better-than-expected earnings and has calmed many investors' fears by showing sequential growth in its gaming segment. During theearnings call investors were teased numerous times to put Nvidia GTC on their calendars. Check out the short video to learn what semiconductor investors Jose Najarro, Nicholas Rossolillo, and Billy Duberstein had to say. Also, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the market prices of Feb. 23, 2023. The video was published on Feb. 24, 2023.

Find out why Nvidia is one of the 10 best stocks to buy now
Our award-winning analyst team has spent more than a decade beating the market. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now. Nvidia is on the list -- but there are nine others you may be overlooking.
Click here to get access to the full list!
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Billy Duberstein has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Jose Najarro has positions in Nvidia. Nicholas Rossolillo has positions in Nvidia. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Nvidia. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.