February 27, 2023 — 08:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
It happens to the best of us. You're taking a few minutes to do some scrolling on social media when a friend posts a link to a GoFundMe campaign. Before you know it, you're reading someone's unfortunate story and are digging out your credit card to make a modest donation.
Many people prefer to donate to GoFundMe campaigns than to registered charities, even though the latter can result in savings on taxes. The reason? They figure that with a GoFundMe, a beneficiary is getting to use that money directly, whereas with a charity, it can be hard to know how much money is being spent to pay directors' salaries.
The problem with GoFundMe campaigns, though, is that you might run into a lot of them as you're going about your day. It's estimated that a donation is made every second to a GoFundMe campaign. And while it would be nice to donate to every single one, in reality, that's probably not possible. As such, if you're looking for a way to support good causes without depleting your savings, here are three questions to ask yourself before donating money to a GoFundMe.
Sometimes, people randomly share GoFundMe campaigns on their social media pages. But if you run into a situation where your old college roommate's brother has been in an accident and they're raising funds to help with his recovery, well, that's the sort of campaign that should maybe take priority.
Also, it can be hard to vet a GoFundMe campaign and make sure it's legitimate. But if it's being run by someone you know, or someone you have a connection with, that becomes easier.
You may want to contribute to Molly's fundraiser to get her dog surgery, Bobby's Eagle Scout project to clean up a park, and Leo's recovery from a debilitating disease. These are all worthy causes. But before you contribute to any of them, you need to ask yourself how you're doing financially.
If you're paying your bills just fine and have the wiggle room to donate money, then by all means, do so. But if money has gotten tight and you're already at risk of falling behind on your own bills, then you may need to pass on donating until your financial situation improves.
Maybe you're inspired to donate money to the victims of a house fire in your town who lost everything. But if you're low on funds, there may be another way to help. You could send a message asking the campaign organizer if the family needs clothing and household items, and then donate items you no longer need.
In some cases, the best way to help really is to send money. But it never hurts to explore alternatives if money is tight for you.
GoFundMe campaigns are everywhere, and many are heart-wrenching stories. But it's a good idea to tackle these questions before making a donation -- even if you're moved to contribute each and every time.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.