February 27, 2023 — 07:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Parents of teen drivers have a lot to worry about. In addition to the likely terrifying thought that their baby will be behind the wheel, they also have to figure out how to cover the cost of teen car insurance. 
Paying for auto insurance for teen drivers doesn't come cheap, since insurance companies view young people as high-risk motorists to insure. But, finance expert Dave Ramsey has some tips parents may wish to consider following in order to help keep costs down when getting a policy in place for their kids. 
Ramsey recommends taking the following steps to help cut the cost of getting insurance for a teen:
Ramsey also suggests shopping around for the most affordable coverage with an independent insurance agent and making sure to choose a policy based not just on price alone but also based on coverage needs. 
"Let's face facts -- at some point, your teen may be in a fender bender," Ramsey said. "If that happens, you're going to want to have the right insurance in place. That means having the right amount of liability insurance and other coverages to protect your teen. Plus, you'll want an advocate fighting for your best interest throughout the claims process."

More: Check out our picks for best car insurance companies
Ramsey is absolutely spot-on with most of his advice here. Parents will get better premiums if their kids get driver's education, earn good grades, and drive an older used vehicle. And those who are comfortable with any privacy-related issues can indeed find less expensive coverage if they allow insurers to track driving behavior (assuming the device actually shows them behaving safely). 
Ramsey is also smart to advise shopping around, although parents can do this by themselves or work with an independent agent to help them, depending on their personal preference. The important thing is to remember that coverage needs change once a teen is on the policy, so parents can't assume their current insurer is the best one without first seeing what else is out there. 

Ready to shop for car insurance? Whether you’re focused on price, claims handling, or customer service, we've researched insurers nationwide to provide our best-in-class picks for car insurance coverage. Read our free expert review today to get started.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.