February 27, 2023 — 06:10 am EST

      Written by
                        Demitri Kalogeropoulos for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


McDonald's (NYSE: MCD) and Home Depot (NYSE: HD) have been key members of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since the mid-80s. They dominate their respective industries with market-thumping sales and profits and have rewarded shareholders with a steadily growing dividend over many years.
But which of these blue chip giants is the better investment here in early 2023? Let's dive right in.
If you're focused solely on growth trends, McDonald's is the stock for you. In late January, the fast-food giant reported a blazing 12% spike in comparable-store sales, representing an acceleration compared to the previous quarter. Mickey D's is outperforming peers in an industry experiencing increased demand as consumers look for quick, affordable dining experiences.
On the other hand, Home Depot just announced a slight drop in comps for the fourth-quarter period that ended in late December. The home improvement giant is facing pressures from rising interest rates and a growth hangover related to soaring results in 2020 and 2021.
Weaker growth trends also show up in the customer traffic metric. McDonald's enjoyed rising traffic and higher average spending through late 2022. On the other hand, Home Depot reported a 6% drop in Q4 and a 5% decline for the full year.
Home Depot and McDonald's stocks both deliver market-leading financial efficiency. The fast-food titan's operating profit margin is over 40% of sales, well ahead of peers like Chipotle. The same holds true for Home Depot, whose 15% profit margin routinely outpaces Lowe's.

HD Operating Margin (TTM) data by YCharts. TTM = trailing 12 months.
Home Depot shines in the return on invested capital metric, which helps describe a company's efficiency along with management's ability to allocate capital. This success has allowed the company to shower its investors with direct cash returns through a rising dividend and aggressive stock buybacks.
And on the wider subject of cash returns, Home Depot takes the edge. Both companies raised their dividends by 10% for 2023, but the retailer will likely spend more on that payout and stock buybacks over the coming years, thanks in part to its less ambitious plans for increasing its footprint.
As they compete in different industries, it isn't useful to directly compare valuations between Home Depot and McDonald's. But both are valued at premiums compared to their rivals. Home Depot is trading for over 2 times annual sales, for example, versus Lowe's 1.4 ratio. Meanwhile, McDonald's is valued at nearly 9 times annual revenue, compared to roughly 5 for peers like Chipotle and Restaurant Brands International. And McDonald's stock has risen over the past full year, while Home Depot's has modestly trailed the market's 6% decline.
Both companies will likely continue posting above-average operating trends, so each could be a good addition to your portfolio. McDonald's seems better suited for growth-focused investors. After all, Home Depot is projecting flat sales results in 2023 and could see another year of falling traffic.
McDonald's ability to boost traffic and average spending through a wide range of selling conditions, in contrast, helps explain why the stock is trading at an appropriate premium today.
10 stocks we like better than McDonald'sWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and McDonald's wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Demitri Kalogeropoulos has positions in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Home Depot, and McDonald's. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Chipotle Mexican Grill and Home Depot. The Motley Fool recommends Lowe's Companies and Restaurant Brands International. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.