February 27, 2023 — 06:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Katie Brockman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Dogecoin (CRYPTO: DOGE) was one of the most explosive cryptocurrencies of 2021, skyrocketing by a staggering 9,000% between January and May of that year alone.
While it and many other cryptocurrencies have seen their prices plummet over the past year, many investors are still optimistic that Dogecoin could make a comeback. If that happens, investing now could seem like a good move.
But is Dogecoin really a smart investment? And could it make you a millionaire? Here's what you need to know.
Those who bought and sold Dogecoin at just the right moment back in 2021 could have seen lucrative earnings. But the crypto landscape is very different now than it was then, and the best investments are the ones with long-term potential.
At the moment, Dogecoin lacks any notable real-world utility. While it has made strides to improve its network (such as the launch of Dogechain in 2022 to bring smart contract capabilities to the blockchain), it's nowhere near the levels of its competitors when it comes to its intrinsic value.
Dogecoin's primary advantage is its community, as it has a loyal group of followers who have kept it alive even after it crashed in 2021. But when a cryptocurrency's worth is based primarily on its popularity, that can be a dangerous game.
If Dogecoin's popularity surges, it could see significant short-term gains. But unless the network starts making big moves to improve its intrinsic value, it will be incredibly difficult for Dogecoin to sustain long-term growth based on popularity alone.
There are never any guarantees when it comes to crypto, so there's always a chance that Dogecoin could rebound. But at the moment, it's not a safe long-term investment, and it carries an incredibly high amount of risk.
If you're looking to make money with crypto, you're better off looking for investments with real-world utility and the potential for long-term growth. There are still no promises that these cryptocurrencies will thrive, but the more value a crypto has, the better its chances of succeeding.
Exactly where to invest will depend on your personal preferences. Bitcoin and Ethereum are perhaps the safest options, as they are by far the largest players in the industry and have the most real-world value.
But there are also plenty of smaller cryptocurrencies with loads of potential. Many investors are excited about lesser-known names like Polygon and Polkadot, and smaller cryptocurrencies (with strong fundamentals and real-world utility) often have more potential for growth.
Dogecoin may not be the strongest investment, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't invest in crypto. There are a few questions to ask yourself, though, before you buy:
Investing in cryptocurrency is risky, but many investors are optimistic that this industry could be revolutionary. By choosing the right investments and keeping a long-term outlook, you could potentially make a lot of money with crypto.
10 stocks we like better than DogecoinWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Dogecoin wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Katie Brockman has positions in Bitcoin and Ethereum. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Polygon. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.