February 27, 2023 — 05:18 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


It's fair to assume that you'll need a decent chunk of money in personal savings to retire in a comfortable manner. To put it another way, retiring on Social Security alone is not a good idea.
If we're lucky, and Social Security benefits aren't cut, you can expect them to replace about 40% of your pre-retirement income. But if you retire on those benefits alone, it will be akin to taking a 60% pay cut. And that may not be ideal.
As such, it's a great idea to push yourself to build as much retirement savings as you can. But just how much money do you need to sock away?
Image source: Getty Images.
A recent survey by Western & Southern Financial Group found that Americans think they'll need an average $1,027,501 to retire. But should you be aiming for a $1 million nest egg? And what if that's just not doable?
You'll often hear $1 million tossed around as a magic retirement savings figure. But the reality is that fixating on that number isn't going to serve you well.
The reason? If you plan to live an extravagant lifestyle as a retiree, then you might fall short with only $1 million in savings. And if you plan to live frugally, you might get by quite nicely on a nest egg worth $300,000. So instead of fixating on $1 million as the ultimate retirement savings target, think about your personal needs and ask yourself questions like:
Setting a retirement savings goal is something each and every person should do on an individual level. And so rather than focus on $1 million, figure out what your financial needs look like. You may find that your personal target should look very different for one reason or another.
If you commit to saving for retirement early on and spend many years funding your nest egg, then yes, you can turn a series of modest contributions into $1 million. Socking away a mere $300 a month over 42 years will leave you with over $1 million if your investments generate an average annual 8% return, which is a bit below the stock market's average.
At the end of the day, you may decide that you do, in fact, need $1 million to pull off your dream retirement. But don't assume that's the optimal savings target for you.
The $21,756 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $21,756 more... each year! Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after. Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.