February 27, 2023 — 05:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Ashley Maready for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Getting an unexpected bill is one of those parts of adult money management that no one enjoys, but happens to all of us. Perhaps your furnace died over a holiday weekend, or your car needs a pricey repair. Either way, now you need money in a hurry, and you're looking for the easiest way to borrow. You definitely don't want to fall back on a costly payday loan. You might consider a personal loan, but what if your trusty credit card could help you out?
There has long been a way to extract cash from your credit card in a hurry, and it's called a cash advance. Cash advances let you borrow cash from your credit card's cash advance limit, which will usually be lower than your credit limit, and can be found in your credit card terms and conditions. You withdraw the cash at an ATM, using a PIN provided by your card issuer. This method of borrowing should be considered an option of last resort, though, as you'll be charged a cash advance fee as well as interest, which will begin accruing immediately, rather than allowing you a grace period like a normal credit card purchase.

Discover: These personal loans are best for debt consolidation
More: Prequalify for a personal loan without impacting your credit score
But a few big-name credit card issuers are now offering credit card loans. Here's how they work.
A couple of credit card companies now offer loans based on your existing credit limit with them. There's no application process, and borrowers receive the funds via direct deposit or a mailed check, so it will likely be a few days' wait at the most to get cash in hand. The credit card company tells the customer how much they can borrow and provides an interest rate based on spending habits and creditworthiness. The loan is then easy to manage by way of that existing account with the lender, and customers can select a payment timeline and see how many payments are left. Sounds pretty good, right? Unfortunately, credit card loans come with a few drawbacks to be aware of.
Before you rush to see if a credit card loan might help you out of a jam, there's a few things to know. First and foremost, a credit card loan will increase your credit utilization ratio. This is the amount of your available credit that you're using. To avoid credit score damage, it's best to keep this number to less than 30%. If you have a $10,000 limit on your credit card and you're already carrying a balance of $2,000, and then take out an additional $2,000 in the form of a loan, your credit utilization ratio for that card is now 40%.
Another potential problem with credit card loans is the interest rate. A credit card loan likely won't be as costly as a cash advance, but if you have a solid credit score, you might qualify for a better interest rate on a personal loan -- personal loans for good credit offer rates as low as 5.99%, while you might end up with an APR of 9.99% or higher on a credit card loan.
You have options when it comes to borrowing money, and perhaps one of these will be a better solution for you than a credit card loan:
Emergency funds are ideal for just such a situation, but the reality is that many Americans don't have one stashed away in a savings account for a rainy day. A 2022 Prudential Pulse survey found that 50% of those asked couldn't cover a $500 emergency out of their savings. It's important to be able to borrow money in a hurry when you need to, so make sure you consider all your options before signing on for a credit card loan.
Our experts vetted the most popular offers to land on the select picks that are worthy of a spot in your wallet. These best-in-class cards pack in rich perks, such as big sign-up bonuses, long 0% intro APR offers, and robust rewards. Get started today with our recommended credit cards.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.