February 26, 2023 — 08:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        The Daily Upside for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to 
  The Daily Upside newsletter. 
  It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
In Chinese astrology, rabbits are the luckiest of the 12 animals, and corporate America is hoping that with any luck a Chinese economic rebound in the Year of the Rabbit can help them withstand a potential slump at home.
US businesses, mostly consumer-facing ones, are getting even more bullish on China now that its "zero COVID" policy is a thing of the past, The Wall Street Journal reported Sunday.
Political and economic tensions between Washington DC and Beijing are high. China is standing strong in its support for Vladamir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, and is even considering shipping lethal weapons: America doesn't like that. The US is ramping up its microchip and electric vehicle production to compete with the Middle Kingdom: China doesn't like that. Both nations have begun to blacklist a handful of each other's respective companies. We haven't even mentioned balloons. Corporate America, however, does what it wants unless Washington tells it not to.
For roughly three years, China maintained its draconian zero COVID policy. Whereas most countries facing less severe variants took a "let's learn to live with it" approach, China pushed on, closing down air travel, enforcing strict lockdowns, and hosting one of the most frustrating winter Olympics in history. But the economy started to tank and protests filled the streets, so at the end of 2022, China ditched the safety measures and essentially reopened the world's second-largest consumer market.
US companies that continued to invest in China throughout the pandemic despite losses now see a reward on the horizon:
Disney is also having a field day now that China has lifted its three-year ban on Marvel films. While Chinese regulators never explained why the movies were prohibited in the first place, there were multiple theories: the ongoing trade war with the US, the presence of LGBTQ+ characters, and Eternals director and Chinese native Chloé Zhao criticizing the nation.
Russian Expansion: Meanwhile in Russia, Corporate China is making headway. With plenty of international companies scaling back or completely leaving Russia, China is filling in some of the gaps, CNN reported. The iPhone and Galaxy have been replaced by the Xiaomi and Realme. Forget Hyundai and Kia. Now the Russian auto market is all about Chery and Great Wall.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.