February 26, 2023 — 07:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
A few months ago, I was driving down the street when a car pulled out of a parking spot and hit me. What made the matter even more unfortunate, and a little awkward, is that the driver was a fellow elementary school parent I'm friendly with.
Thankfully, no one was hurt, since I happened to be driving down the block at a very slow speed. But my car sustained several thousand dollars' worth of damage due to the size of her vehicle and the angle at which I was hit.
As such, I contacted my auto insurance company to file a claim. I then took my car to an approved auto body shop to get in their queue so my car could be fixed.
I figured that since the accident clearly wasn't my fault, I wouldn't have to pay anything in the course of getting my car repaired. But I was wrong.
I was under the false impression that my auto insurance company would go after the other driver's insurance right away so I wouldn't need to shell out money for my deductible, which happens to be $750 -- not a small amount of money. But instead, what I had to do was pay that money (in the form of a swiped credit card) and then wait for my insurance company to go through the process of subrogation, which involves recovering money from the insurance company covering the person who was at fault.

More: Check out our picks for best car insurance companies
As part of this process, I had to go through an in-depth interview with a representative from the other driver's insurance company to explain what had happened. I then had to wait a number of weeks for that insurance company to make a determination.
At the end of the day, I got a check from my car insurance company refunding me my $750 deductible. But it took a couple of months for me to get my money back as the insurance companies worked things out.
This experience taught me a very important lesson: Always make sure to have some emergency savings on hand. In my case, I had to pay the credit card with my $750 deductible charge well before I was reimbursed that sum from my insurance company. Had I not had the money in my savings account to cover that bill, I would've racked up interest on that balance -- despite not having been at fault for the accident in question.
Of course, your auto insurance deductible may be higher or lower than mine. American Family Insurance says the average auto insurance deductible is $500.
But either way, it's a good idea to make sure you have at least enough cash in savings to cover your car insurance deductible. You never know when you might need to swipe your credit card or write out a check, even if you're completely not to blame for the situation at hand.

Ready to shop for car insurance? Whether you’re focused on price, claims handling, or customer service, we've researched insurers nationwide to provide our best-in-class picks for car insurance coverage. Read our free expert review today to get started.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.