February 26, 2023 — 06:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Natasha Gabrielle for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) is a valuable resource. The program helps low-income pregnant, breastfeeding, and postpartum women and infants and children up to age 5 with nutritional risks. Participants can use WIC benefits to purchase eligible food and drink items from participating stores.
For many low-income households, it's a challenge to afford everyday living costs -- even more so now as prices are higher due to rampant inflation. When you have children, your expenses can quickly become more costly, and staying afloat can be a struggle.
WIC is a valuable resource for many women and their children. Using program benefits to buy eligible supplemental items for their families can allow women to stretch the dollars in their checking accounts to afford other costly living expenses.
WIC covers eligible supplemental foods and beverages. Some may know that the program covers items like milk and baby formula. Here are a few other items that you may not realize can be purchased using WIC benefits:
Note: There are specific rules for each eligible item to ensure they meet set nutritional requirements. For example, not every canned fish on the grocery store shelf is WIC-eligible. The U.S. The Department of Agriculture outlines these requirements, so reviewing these requirements is recommended if you're new to the WIC program.
If you're new to WIC or are thinking about applying for benefits, the following tips may help you get the most out of the program.
If you're pregnant or are a mother struggling financially, don't be afraid to use resources like WIC. This program can help eligible women feel less financial stress as they care for their kids. Reach out to your local WIC agency to learn more or apply for benefits. Using resources that are available to you can help you improve your personal finance situation.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.