February 26, 2023 — 04:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Cole Tretheway for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Employers often force employees to choose between investing in two employer-sponsored retirement accounts: the traditional 401(k) and the Roth 401(k). Sound familiar? If so, you've probably debated which is the better investment.
Both have their merits. On her Woman & Money podcast, financial guru Suze Orman says that 401(k)s are a fabulous place to put your money.

Bonus Offer: Score up to $600 when you open this brokerage account
Discover: Best online stock brokers for beginners

Traditional 401(k)s are pre-tax retirement accounts. You are taxed when you pull your money out of the account. Here is what makes traditional 401(k)s so appealing:
Roth 401(k)s are after-tax retirement accounts. You are taxed when you put money into the account. Here's what makes Roth 401(k)s so appealing:
Employers often match a percentage of employee investments regardless of which account you choose. That's more savings on top of whatever you feel comfortable contributing.
Author's note: However, this percent match often comes with strings attached -- employers sometimes revoke the match if employees quit too soon. Stay informed. Read the fine print and check whether the company has a vesting schedule.
Orman loves Roth 401(k)s for two reasons: Unlike traditional 401(k)s, Roth accounts no longer require retirees to make annual withdrawals. And folks can contribute more to a Roth 401(k) than they can a Roth IRA (individual retirement account).
Orman says, "You're better off doing a Roth 401(k) versus a traditional 401(k)… because you can just leave it in there for the rest of your life."
Traditional 401(k)s come with a condition called RMD, which stands for required minimum distribution. If you have money in a 401(k) during retirement, you must withdraw a minimum amount of money from that account each year or pay a stiff fine.
In 2024, Roth 401(k)s will no longer require RMDs thanks to the Secure Act 2.0. Investors can leave money in their accounts for as long as they want, regardless of age or retirement status. Roth 401(k)s give retirees greater flexibility when making withdrawals.
Orman adds, "You can put larger amounts of money in there than you can in a Roth IRA. And anytime you want, you can always convert it to a Roth IRA."
In 2023, the Roth 401(k) contribution limit is $22,500. The Roth IRA contribution limit is $6,500. (Folks over 50 have higher contribution limits.) You can contribute more long-term savings to a Roth 401(k).
Employees who switch jobs or retire can convert their accounts into a Roth IRA. Like the Roth 401(k), the Roth IRA doesn't require you to withdraw money in retirement.
You have options if you choose to roll over your Roth 401(k) into a Roth IRA. Make sure to shop around. The best Roth IRA accounts offer powerful features like simple setup and low fees.
We pored over the data and user reviews to find the select rare picks that landed a spot on our list of the best stock brokers. Some of these best-in-class picks pack in valuable perks, including $0 stock and ETF commissions. Get started and review our best stock brokers.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.