February 26, 2023 — 02:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Natasha Gabrielle for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
The term "neurodivergence" describes differences in brain function. Neurodivergent people have different strengths and weaknesses from those with typical neurological functioning or neurotypical people. As such, it can be a struggle for many neurodivergent people to manage their finances.
If this resonates with you, keep reading. Whether you spend money impulsively, forget to pay your bills, or find it challenging to stay committed to your money goals, you're not alone. The following tips may help you manage your money and reach your personal finance goals with greater ease.
Many neurodivergent people struggle with working memory, so it can be difficult to remember to handle necessary financial tasks. You may want to use automation tools if you struggle to remember to save money or pay bills.
Here are two ideas:
If automation isn't for you, that's okay. Another technique that may help you reduce forgetfulness is to use alerts and reminders. Find a strategy that won't overwhelm you. Here are a few ideas a try:
As someone with ADHD, I get bored quickly; I have to be interested in something to remain focused. Gamifying a boring task can help me focus better. You may want to gamify your money matters. Whether you're working to pay off debt, trying to reach a savings goal, or hoping to get better at following a budget, you may be more successful by making it fun. Consider these options:
You're not alone if you suffer from impulsivity. Many neurodivergent people overspend and struggle with credit card debt. You may find it easier to manage your spending by logging out of shopping apps and websites as soon as you place an order. It will take more effort to log back in and place another order, which may deter you from making unnecessary purchases.
No one can do it all alone, and it's okay to ask for help. If you're finding it difficult to manage your financial matters independently, don't hesitate to get assistance. If you live with family, a trusted roommate, or a partner, you could ask them to share some of the household financial responsibilities so you feel less overwhelmed.
No one solution works for everyone. You may need to experiment to find what strategies work well for you. Much of the typical financial advice only works well for the neurotypical brain. If you're neurodivergent, don't be afraid to get creative and think outside the box so you can master your money in a way that works best for you.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.