February 26, 2023 — 01:30 pm EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
There's a reason consumers are often told to purchase life insurance at a relatively young age. The younger you are when you apply for coverage, the lower your premium costs are likely to be.
Forbes Advisor reports that the average cost of a 30-year, $250,000 term life insurance policy for a 30-year-old male is $276 a year. For a 40-year-old male, the cost of the same length and amount of coverage rises to $372 a year.
But while applying for a life insurance policy at a young age might help you save some money, it might also backfire on you. Here are a few mistakes you risk making when you apply for a life insurance policy when you're very young.
Let's say you buy life insurance at age 25 when it's just you and a spouse. Maybe your life plan is to not have kids because you're put off by the cost of raising them and can't imagine being in a secure enough spot financially to comfortably afford them.
But what if, during your 30s, your financial situation changes -- your income rises, you're able to boost your savings account balance, and you feel far more secure? At that point, you may decide to bring children into the world after all. But at that point, you may not have enough life insurance coverage given your new family dynamic.

Discover: Save on your life insurance with one of these companies
More: Check out our top picks for life insurance companies
It's common to calculate your life insurance payout as a multiple of your salary. So if you earn $50,000 a year now, you may decide you want to replace your annual income 10 times over, leaving you with a life insurance benefit of $500,000.
But chances are, as you progress in your career, your income will pick up. If that happens at a faster pace than you expect it to, you could run into a situation where your life insurance benefit will no longer cut it.
In fact, let's say your income rises from $50,000 a year to $80,000 a year within three years because you work hard and get promoted. In that case, you might want a life insurance benefit worth $800,000, but you'll be limited to $500,000.
When you're young, it can be hard to picture the future. And so you may be inclined to secure life insurance coverage for a limited term -- say, 10 years. You might need a longer term life insurance policy to give your beneficiaries adequate protection, though. So locking in too short a term may end up leaving your loved ones high and dry.
It's a great thing to prioritize life insurance at a young age. But if you're going to apply for a policy when you're young, do your best to think about the ways your circumstances might change. You might expand your family, your earnings could pick up, and you may end up needing coverage for more years than expected.

Life insurance is essential if you have people depending on you. We’ve combed through the options and developed a best-in-class list for life insurance coverage. This guide will help you find the best life insurance companies and the right type of policy for your needs. Read our free review today.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.