February 26, 2023 — 11:06 am EST

      Written by
                        Daniel Sparks for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Many headlines surrounding Domino's Pizza's (NYSE: DPZ) fourth-quarter results last week were focused on the company's worse-than-expected quarterly revenue and its lowered outlook for retail sales growth over the next two to three years. However, there were some good things in the report, too. One thing worth highlighting is yet another dividend increase from the pizza delivery king.
The company's fresh double-digit dividend increase adds to an impressive track record of dividend growth. Further, a dividend increase amid a difficult macroeconomic environment helps demonstrate how resilient Domino's business is.
Here's a closer look at the pizza delivery company's attractive dividend.
Domino's announced last week that it is raising its quarterly dividend by 10%. Its regular cash payment to shareholders has increased rapidly in recent years. Including this most recent increase, Domino's quarterly dividend more than doubled over the last five years, soaring from $0.55 in 2018 to $1.21 this year. 
Looking ahead, more strong dividend growth is likely. Consider that only 40% of the company's $388 million in free cash flow during 2022 was paid out to shareholders in dividends. The upside for dividend growth in the years ahead is substantial. Driving this point home further, dividend payments as a percentage of Domino's 2022 net income were even lower, coming in at less than 35%.
Such a low payout ratio also means that Domino's dividend is likely one shareholders can rely on even if the macroeconomic environment deteriorates further. For instance, if Domino's earnings took a hit, there is still plenty of wiggle room for the company to maintain its dividend while continuing to reinvest in its business.
Domino's 10% increase to its quarterly dividend means the stock's dividend yield is now 1.6%. While this isn't mouthwatering, it's high enough for shareholders to appreciate it. It's especially solid when considered alongside the likelihood of more strong dividend growth from the company in the years ahead.
A good analysis of Domino's dividend shouldn't go without mention of its accompanying share repurchase program. Management has opted to return cash to shareholders in more ways than one. Regular share repurchases represent the other method the company is distributing cash to shareholders, albeit indirectly.
Believe it or not, Domino's is returning even more cash to shareholders through repurchases than through dividends. Of the $452 million Domino's returned to shareholders in 2022, $294 million was allocated to share buybacks. About $158 million went to dividend payments.
Looking ahead, shareholders can expect more repurchases from Domino's. At the end of Q4, $410 million remained under the company's authorized capital for share repurchases. This authorized capital for share repurchases is especially valuable now that the stock has taken a dip following Domino's recent earnings report. A lower stock price means the company can get more bang for its buck on repurchases.
Overall, Domino's profitable and resilient business has a lot to offer shareholders, even during uncertain times. This is especially evident by the company's 10% dividend increase and management's repurchase program.
10 stocks we like better than Domino's PizzaWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Domino's Pizza wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Daniel Sparks has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. His clients may own shares of the companies mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Domino's Pizza. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.