February 26, 2023 — 11:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
My husband and I have a travel credit card that allows us access to the Admirals Club lounge. We fly around once per month on American Airlines, so we visit this lounge regularly. There are some things that are great about it -- but also some things I don't like very much at all.  
Here are three things I love (along with three things I hate) about the lounge our credit card lets us access.
Here are my three favorite features of the Admirals Club lounge.
The free food available at the lounge was one of the main reasons we signed up for a credit card to gain access. We don't like eating fast food when we travel and we don't have to, thanks to the spread the Admirals Club puts out.
And the food is really delicious at the lounges we've been to -- especially the dessert selection consisting of cookies, Rice Krispy treats, and brownies. These deserts are a much higher quality than you'd expect and taste better than the ones on offer at typical buffet restaurants. 
The Admirals Club lounges offer a great selection of complimentary drinks. I'm nursing a baby so I can't drink alcohol, but there's a ton of non-alcoholic drinks on offer too. Last time we visited, a Blueberry Hibiscus Lemonade was the drink of the month. We've also enjoyed fresh-squeezed orange juice, among other selections. 
In every lounge I've been in, there have been comfortable chairs with little attached tables to dine on. The seating beats standard airline waiting room seats any day of the week and it's comfortable to sit on for longer periods of time when our planes have been delayed. 
Despite really enjoying the Admirals Club, there are some things I don't like about it. Here are the three things I hate.
A few of the lounges I've been in -- particularly the one at Orlando airport -- are much smaller than they should be given the size of the potential crowds. I've had trouble finding a place to sit on numerous occasions and these aren't even on super busy travel days. 
Although the food is good at the Admirals Club lounge, there's not a lot of variety. Every time I've had dinner at one lounge, for example, there's been taco meat while another has featured meatballs every single time. I would definitely prefer to have different selections, especially since I travel so much and am visiting the lounge regularly. 
Finally, some of the Admirals Club lounges have been located pretty far from the gate where we end up checking off, which can be a hassle since we have to leave the lounge earlier than we'd like to get to our flight on time.
Overall, I'm happy with our experience, but I do think there's room for improvement. I'll be keeping my card that provides access, though, as the annual fee is well worth paying for the perks an Admirals Club membership offers.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.