February 26, 2023 — 08:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Whether you're new to having money in a brokerage account or you've had one open for many years now, you might rely on outside advice to keep developing and informing your investment strategy. This isn't necessarily a bad thing to do. In fact, it's a good thing to learn from those who may have more expertise or knowledge than you do when it comes to investing.
The problem, though, is that there's a lot of badinvestment adviceout there. And in an age of social media, it's become easier than ever to accessinvestment advice-- even from people who shouldn't be giving it.

Bonus Offer: Score up to $600 when you open this brokerage account
Discover: Best online stock brokers for beginners

That's why you'll need to be careful when it comes to building your portfolio. And it also pays to follow this tip from investing expert Graham Stephan.
In a recent tweet, Stephan shared the approach that Charlie Munger, a well-known billionaire investor, takes to buying assets. According to Stephan, Munger classifies all of his investing ideas into three boxes:
Stephan then went on to say, "Knowing which ideas to ignore is as important as knowing which ones to invest in."
Now, this doesn't necessarily mean you should pass up investment opportunities because researching them further is difficult and time-consuming. But one thing you shouldn't do is succumb to the pressure to put your hard-earned money intoinvestment advicethat doesn't make sense to you, or doesn't sit right with you.
In fact, one essential rule all investors should stick to is to never invest in an asset you don't understand. Let's say you normally buy stocks, but there's a specific company whose finances you just can't wrap your head around. That's a company worth passing on, even though it could end up making you wealthier.
Similarly, you may have been told repeatedly over the past few years that investing in cryptocurrency is a great way to get rich. But maybe you're just not comfortable with that given how volatile the crypto market tends to be (it can swing even more wildly than the stock market, which is volatile enough in its own right). Or maybe you really just don't understand how the crypto market works and how to make money there. In that case, passing on crypto is a better bet.
You can seek out and take advice on how to build a portfolio, and if you're sticking to reputable sources, that can be a good thing. But you also shouldn't hesitate to carve out your own path as an investor. Establish a strategy that works for you and your risk tolerance level, and ignore advice that just doesn't speak to you.
A lot of people worry that by passing on trendy investments, they're giving up a big opportunity to make money. In reality, a lot of those so-called "hot" investments fizzle out and result in losses. So ignoring that sort of advice and steering clear of peer pressure could set you on the path to success.
We pored over the data and user reviews to find the select rare picks that landed a spot on our list of the best stock brokers. Some of these best-in-class picks pack in valuable perks, including $0 stock and ETF commissions. Get started and review our best stock brokers.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.