February 26, 2023 — 06:21 am EST

      Written by
                        Matthew Frankel and Tyler Crowe for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK.A)(NYSE: BRK.B) owns about four dozen stocks in its portfolio, many of which were selected by Warren Buffett himself. In this video, Matt Frankel, CFP®, and Fool.com contributor Tyler Crowe discuss two of their favorite Buffett stocks to buy and hold, even in a turbulent market.
*Stock prices used were the midday prices of Feb. 23, 2023. The video was published on Feb. 23, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Berkshire HathawayWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Berkshire Hathaway wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Ally is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Matt Frankel has positions in Ally Financial and Berkshire Hathaway. Tyler Crowe has positions in Berkshire Hathaway. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Berkshire Hathaway and Moody's. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Matthew Frankel is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link, they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.