February 26, 2023 — 05:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Dana George for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending allows borrowers to avoid traditional financial institutions and instead, deal with investors who might want to finance their loans. P2P is a growing alternative to traditional lending institutions. P2P lending is growing at a rapid pace, and according to Acumen Research and Consulting, expected to achieve a market size of $804.2 billion by 2030.
Let's say you have a great idea for a home-based business and need $20,000 to get it up and running. The problem is that your credit score is only so-so and you're not confident that a bank will loan you the funds.

Discover: These personal loans are best for debt consolidation
More: Prequalify for a personal loan without impacting your credit score
You go online to visit a P2P lending site and fill out a loan application, which will likely include a credit check. The lending site lets you know if you're approved or not. If so, they'll tell you what your interest rate will be.
Using online software, the P2P site will match your application with potential lenders. And at this point, you sit back and wait as investors review your loan application and decide whether they want to fund it. An investor may fund a loan in its entirety or a portion of the loan amount. In other words, by the time investors have made their decisions, you may have money coming from several different sources.
Investor decisions are based on their goals. For example, one investor might want to play it relatively safe and loan as little as $25 to many borrowers. That way, their portfolio is a mix of higher-risk and lower-risk investments. The fewer risks an investor takes, the less they earn in interest payments. Other investors might go straight for risky loans in hopes of higher returns.
If your loan is successfully funded, the money is likely to hit your bank account in less time than it would take a traditional lender to distribute funds. Now, it's time to move on to the repayment stage. Just like a traditional loan, you'll repay a P2P loan with regular monthly payments.
Each payment is divided between the various lenders. Let's say one lender decides to fund $10,000 of the $20,000 for which you applied. That lender will get 50% of each payment. The remainder will be split among the other investors.
The upside of P2P loans is that you may be able to get a loan that you would not otherwise qualify for. The downside is that you're likely to pay a much higher interest rate than you would pay if you landed a loan through a traditional lender.
Before applying for a P2P loan, decide if you would be better off working to boost your credit score in order to qualify for a lower-interest loan.
There are costs associated with borrowing money through a P2P lending site. Some P2P sites include fees in the payments, while others require upfront fees of 1% to 8% or more. No matter how fees are built in, go over the loan contract with a fine-toothed comb before signing on the dotted line. Make sure you understand how much the loan is going to cost, including all fees and interest paid.
Ideally, the best personal loan is one that charges no origination fees and offers you a fair interest rate.
Our experts vetted the most popular offers to land on the select picks that are worthy of a spot in your wallet. These best-in-class cards pack in rich perks, such as big sign-up bonuses, long 0% intro APR offers, and robust rewards. Get started today with our recommended credit cards.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.