February 25, 2023 — 07:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Lyle Daly for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
It might seem like a reasonable request at first: A friend or family member tells you they don't have the best credit, and they ask if you'd be willing to cosign for them on something that requires a credit check. That could be a loan, a credit card, or a rental contract, to give a few common examples.
This isn't a decision to take lightly. Cosigning can be one of the biggest credit mistakes, so before you even consider it, you need to know about the potential drawbacks.


Save: This credit card has one of the longest intro 0% interest periods around
More: Save while you pay off debt with one of these top-rated balance transfer credit cards
When you cosign on a financial contract, you're agreeing to be responsible if the primary applicant doesn't pay. If you cosign on a loan and the borrower stops paying, you're required to make payments. If you cosign on an apartment lease and the tenant defaults, the landlord can come after you.
The reason somebody would ask you to cosign is because you have better credit than they do. During the application process, the creditor will check both the borrower's credit and the cosigner's credit. If the borrower doesn't have a high credit score and they apply alone, they might be denied or receive unfavorable terms, like a high interest rate. If you have excellent credit, then you could help them get approved.
Cosigning is a situation where you take on all the risk and get none of the reward. It's the person you're cosigning for who benefits. Here are the risks involved for you:
There's really only one way that cosigning can go right, and that's if the borrower makes all their payments without issue. On the other hand, there are all kinds of ways it can go wrong.
Maybe your friend isn't good about making their loan payments on time. You start getting letters saying there's a missed payment. That puts you in the awkward position of going into parent-mode with your friend, asking them why they haven't paid on time and if they could please do it soon to get this lender off your back.
Here's another thing to keep in mind: It's not easy to get your name off a contract when you're a cosigner. This usually requires a new contract between the borrower and lender. For example, with a loan, the borrower would likely need to refinance it. Otherwise, you're on that contract for as long as it lasts.
Have a falling out with the borrower because they always pay late? It doesn't matter. Even if you two aren't speaking, you're still the cosigner, and the one responsible for paying if the borrower doesn't.
Be extremely selective about cosigning on anything. You should only agree if you trust the other person and if you're ready to pay off their debt to protect your credit score.
To be fair, cosigning doesn't always backfire. But you need to consider how well you know this person and if you should even be putting yourself in this situation. You are, after all, putting your credit and financial security on the line. Even if you think you know someone well, you may not know how responsible they are with their finances.
The situation where it makes the most sense to cosign is if you have adult children who are working on their credit for the first time. It can be challenging to build your credit score from scratch. By cosigning on your child's credit card or loan application, you could be a big help for them.
When you've worked hard on your credit, you don't want to lose all your progress because of a mistake. Being a cosigner is one of those decisions that could have severe consequences. In most cases, it's better to err on the side of caution.
If you have credit card debt, transferring it to this top balance transfer card secures you a 0% intro APR for up to 21 months! Plus, you'll pay no annual fee. Those are just a few reasons why our experts rate this card as a top pick to help get control of your debt. Read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.