February 25, 2023 — 05:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
A 401(k) is a great retirement account for many people. Unlike an IRA account, which is a retirement account you open with a brokerage firm of your choosing, your employer manages your 401(k) account (although you do pick the investments within it). You have contributions taken directly from your paycheck, which are made with pre-tax dollars, so a 401(k) is a very convenient way to invest for the future.
However, finance expert Suze Orman has warned that unfortunately, many people are making a big mistake when it comes to this type of investment account.
According to Orman, many people are unknowingly making an error with their 401(k) through no fault of their own, which unfortunately leaves their retirement account balance lower than it should be.
"If you changed jobs recently and just relied on your plan to 'auto-enroll' you, there's a good chance you are leaving money on the table," Orman explained. "It's not your fault! Your plan automatically chose a starting contribution rate that is too low to qualify for the maximum match. Grrrrr. Call up HR and find out what your contribution rate needs to be to qualify for the max match. Make the switch ASAP."
Orman said as many as one in four workers could potentially be unknowingly making this mistake. But the good news is, once you are aware of it, it's not difficult to correct it.
The best way to avoid leaving money on the table is to find out exactly what the rules are for earning your full employer matching contribution.
A matching contribution is money your company puts into your 401(k) when you make a contribution. Different companies have their own rules for how they work. For example, some companies match 100% of contributions up to 4% of your salary, or 50% of contributions up to 6% of your salary, or some similar breakdown.
Once you have found out exactly how your company contributes, you can sign up to contribute enough to earn the full match.
So, for example, if your employer matched contributions up to 4% of your salary, you'd want to be sure you were investing at least that much in your retirement account. You may want to invest more, since most experts recommend saving 10% to 15% of your income for retirement Or you may opt to invest only enough to earn the full match and then put the rest of your retirement money in another type of tax-advantaged account. But you'd want to be sure you were maxing out that match before doing anything else first.
Changing your contribution amount is usually a simple matter of filing out some forms or making an adjustment in your online account; you can ask HR or your 401(k) administrator how to do it. It's a task you should tackle ASAP so you don't leave free money on the table that your employer would otherwise provide to help you have a more secure future.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.