February 25, 2023 — 01:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Your credit utilization ratio is one of those things you probably don't spend much time thinking about. Heck, you may not even know what a credit utilization ratio is.
In that case, here's a primer. Your credit utilization ratio measures the amount of revolving credit you're using at once. If your total credit limit across your various credit cards is $10,000, and you've racked up a $2,500 balance, that puts your credit utilization ratio at 25%.


Save: This credit card has one of the longest intro 0% interest periods around
More: Save while you pay off debt with one of these top-rated balance transfer credit cards
According to a recent report from VantageScore, the average credit utilization ratio among consumers was 31% as of December 2022. That may not seem too high, but it could be problematic for one big reason.
The more of your available credit you use at once, the more of a borrowing risk you might come across as to lenders. And so it's helpful to keep your credit utilization ratio to 30% or below.
Once your credit utilization ratio exceeds the 30% mark, it can start to cause credit score damage. And once that happens, it can become more difficult to qualify for a loan or an affordable interest rate on one.
As such, an average credit utilization ratio of 31% among consumers isn't so great. It's not horrendous, but it means that the typical credit card user is just above that ideal 30% threshold to avoid credit score damage.
If you're not sure what your credit utilization ratio looks like, access a free copy of your credit report, and you should get the answer there. If your credit utilization ratio is above 30%, it's in your best interest to bring it down. And one effective way to do so is to simply pay off some of your existing credit card balances.
Doing so won't only help your credit score improve. It could also save you money. After all, the less of a balance you carry forward on your credit cards, the less interest you accrue.
Another way to bring down your credit utilization ratio is to get a spending limit increase on your credit cards. If you're a cardholder in good standing, you can usually ask your credit card companies for a credit limit increase every so often.
In some cases, you may have to show proof of a higher income to get that request granted. And you'll also need to be current on your bills (which means being timely with your minimum monthly payments). But if you can satisfy those criteria, your credit card issuers might raise your credit limit, and that could help your credit utilization ratio shrink.
It's not every day that your credit utilization ratio is something you think to check on or work on. But the lower that ratio, the more it can help your credit score. And so if you're on the cusp of applying for a large loan, like a mortgage, then it definitely pays to keep tabs on your credit utilization ratio and make sure it's in decent shape.
If you have credit card debt, transferring it to this top balance transfer card secures you a 0% intro APR for up to 21 months! Plus, you'll pay no annual fee. Those are just a few reasons why our experts rate this card as a top pick to help get control of your debt. Read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.