February 25, 2023 — 10:30 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
There may come a point when you're ready to upgrade some of your appliances. Or, you might have to buy a new appliance when an old one breaks.
Your goal in buying a new appliance should be to score a quality model at a reasonable price point that won't result in an unaffordable credit card balance. To be clear, you don't necessarily want to buy the lowest priced appliance within the category you're looking at. After all, you might keep that appliance for many years, so you'll want to focus on the features it offers just as much as the price tag attached to it.
And in that regard, it pays to look at Costco. Costco's supply of appliances may be somewhat limited in its stores (though this can vary by location). But if you look online, you'll see a wide range of products. And here's why you may want to make Costco your go-to spot for appliances.
It's common for appliances to come with a warranty, but in some cases, that protection might only last for 12 months. But when you buy an appliance through Costco, you'll generally get a two-year warranty right off the bat. That should give you peace of mind when you're removing a large chunk of money from your savings account to pay for a major purchase.
Ordering a new appliance doesn't always solve the problem of what to do with your old one. Often, you'll have to figure out how to have your old appliance removed so your new one can be installed. That could mean having to pay a junk removal service, or bribing some friends with a hand truck and muscles to help you out.
But when you buy a new appliance through Costco, you'll get your old one hauled away at no extra charge. That saves you money and a hassle.
If you have a Costco executive membership, you're entitled to 2% back on your purchases both in stores and online. You might think that that benefit doesn't apply to appliances since they're so expensive. But Costco is great about not imposing exclusions on that offer, so if you have an executive membership, an appliance purchase could put a nice chunk of money back in your pocket.
Costco is definitely a good place to buy appliances. But that said, before you buy your next one, it does pay to compare prices with other retailers and see what offers they have. You may find that another retailer comes in at a more competitive price for the same model, or a similar one, and that it offers a comparable warranty. And if you have a credit card that gives you 2% cash back on purchases, you can enjoy that benefit even if you're not using your Costco executive membership.
Any time you make a major purchase, it's important to do your research. And buying an appliance is certainly no exception.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Maurie Backman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Costco Wholesale. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.