February 25, 2023 — 10:30 am EST

      Written by
                        Jose Najarro for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Adobe's (NASDAQ: ADBE) stock price fell over 7% on Friday after reports appeared that regulators might block its acquisition of Figma in the upcoming month. Is that all there was to the price drop, or are investors worried after Autodesk (NASDAQ: ADSK) reported earnings and fell short of guidance? Check out the short video to learn more, consider subscribing, and click the special offer link below.
*Stock prices used were the after-market prices of Feb. 24, 2023. The video was published on Feb. 24, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than AdobeWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Adobe wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Jose Najarro has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Adobe and Autodesk. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2024 $420 calls on Adobe and short January 2024 $430 calls on Adobe. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose Najarro is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link, they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.