February 25, 2023 — 09:30 am EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
When I first started shopping at Costco, I didn't realize there was such a thing as an executive membership. But one year, when my membership came up for renewal, I was asked if I wanted to stick with the basic membership or upgrade. And I decided to go the latter route.
These days, my Costco executive membership costs me $120 a year, which is twice the cost of a basic membership. But despite that added fee, the executive membership is totally worth it for me. Here are some of the things I love most about it.
With a regular Costco membership, you don't get cash back on your purchases (though your credit card might give you cash back depending on its rewards program). With a Costco executive membership, you get 2% back on any Costco purchase. And that doesn't prevent you from also getting cash back on a credit card you use at Costco.
So, let's say your credit card gives you 1% cash back across the board and you have an executive membership at Costco. All told, you're getting 3% back on the items you're buying.
You'd think Costco's travel services would be excluded from the 2% cash back offer. Not so. Years ago, I booked a trip through Costco that wasn't inexpensive, and my entire itinerary was eligible for that 2% back.
Some credit cards give you access to your cash back month after month. That can be a good thing, but it often means you're only getting a small amount of cash back at a time.
What I really like about Costco's executive membership is that your 2% cash back comes in the form of a reward certificate that's issued to you once a year. This means that by the time your rewards arrive, you're likely to have accumulated a nice sum if you shop at Costco often.
Also, you have options for using your rewards certificate. You can simply present it at the checkout counter and use it to cover the cost of purchases you're making, or you can take it over to the customer service counter and redeem it for cash. I've done both in the past, and both options are really nice to have.
For an executive membership to make sense based on its current price point, you really need to do more than $3,000 of Costco shopping in a year. That's because 2% back on $3,000 is $60, so for every dollar you spend above that threshold, you come out ahead financially with an executive membership over a basic one.
Since I shop at Costco pretty much every week, the executive membership makes sense for me. But if you're not sure about it, tally up your Costco spending from 2022 and see what number you get. If you're above $3,000, you may want to upgrade to an executive membership for 2023.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Maurie Backman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Costco Wholesale. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.