February 25, 2023 — 09:00 am EST

      Written by
                        Christy Bieber for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Costco and Sam's Club are very popular warehouse stores because they offer the opportunity to save money by purchasing large quantities of items at discounted prices. Both also offer a huge range of different products, from cereals and paper towels to flat screen TVs.
If you're hoping to keep more money in your bank account by shopping at Costco and Sam's Club, that's a possibility -- if you're smart about how you spend your money there. But, with so many products on offer, you could just as easily find yourself running up a big credit card bill that you come to regret.
If you really want to save money by warehouse shopping, rather than engage in unnecessary spending, Dave Ramsey said there's one trick to succeeding at this goal that everyone should try.
According to Ramsey, there's a simple secret to saving at Sam's or Costco. "The trick to saving money by buying in bulk is to have a game plan before you even walk through the door of the store," Ramsey said.
Having a game plan, as Ramsey suggested, means strategizing about what you should and should not purchase. It also means doing a price comparison, rather than just assuming that the warehouse prices are going to be cheaper. And, it means considering whether a specific purchase makes sense given your needs as a consumer.
"Like everything else in your budget, think through whether or not it works for you and your specific situation," Ramsey said. "If it does fit your lifestyle and budget, grab a few staple items in bulk and see how much you can save!"
So, if you want to follow Ramsey's advice but aren't sure how to do it, what steps should be part of your game plan? It's pretty simple -- just do the following:
By following these tips and making a plan as Ramsey suggests, shopping at Costco and Sam's Club will help you spend less for things you'd need to buy anyway -- without leading to a bunch of unnecessary purchases that eat up any savings that comes from warehouse club membership.

If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick, which features a 0% intro APR until 2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. 
In fact, this card is so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes. 
Read our free review


We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Christy Bieber has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Costco Wholesale. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.