February 24, 2023 — 07:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Dana George for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Unless your bank has set a withdrawal limit of its own, you are free to take as much out of your bank account as you would like. It is, after all, your money. Here's the catch: If you withdraw $10,000 or more, it will trigger federal reporting requirements.
The Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) establishes how banks must conduct record keeping and when financial institutions must make a report to the federal government. Although BSA was amended following the attacks of 9/11, it's been around since the Nixon administration.


Save: This credit card has one of the longest 0% intro APR periods around
More: Save while you pay off debt with one of these top-rated balance transfer credit cards
The BSA is intended to make it tougher for people to use banks to launder money, finance terrorist activities, hide money from the IRS, or use funds to conduct other illegal activities.
Let's say you have your eye on a classic car that needs work, and you withdraw $20,000 from your savings account to buy it. Your bank automatically files a report under the BSA, and that information is sent to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Unit (FinCen) within the U.S. Treasury Department.
Once the report makes its way to FinCen, it becomes part of a centralized database. No one believes you're doing anything illegal. They know that the majority of reports received represent legitimate bank withdrawals. What they're looking for are suspicious patterns of withdrawals.
It's the total withdrawal that banks look at. For example, a person might withdraw $7,000 from one bank branch, then drive to another branch to withdraw $3,000 the same day. Because the funds were taken the same day, a report is triggered.
Banks have dealt with the BSA long enough to know every trick in the books. The BSA requires banks to report any suspicious activity. Let's say someone withdraws $9,999 to stay below the $10,000 threshold. Banks may report that. If someone were to come into the bank every day or two to withdraw $2,000, that could also be identified as suspicious.
If you're not doing anything wrong, there's no reason to worry about a standard report winding its way to FinCen. However, if you prefer to avoid such a report, there are plenty of other ways to access your funds. Because the trigger applies to cash withdrawals, you can always:
If you specifically need cash, be prepared to explain how it was used. The easiest way to cover yourself is to document how the money is spent and save receipts when possible.
The odds of being asked are negligible, but there's no harm in being prepared.
As mentioned, a report sent to FinCent does not mean anyone thinks you did anything wrong. But until the government can devise a foolproof way to catch financial criminals and other bad guys, we'll all have our names added to databases.
Many people are missing out on guaranteed returns as their money languishes in a big bank savings account earning next to no interest. Our picks of the best online savings accounts can earn you 13x the national average savings account rate. Click here to uncover the best-in-class picks that landed a spot on our shortlist of the best savings accounts for 2023.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.