February 24, 2023 — 06:35 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


A solid quarterly earnings report was the fuel driving shares of secondhand auto sales specialist ACV Auctions (NASDAQ: ACVA) higher this week. Several analysts' price target raises added a bit of turbo to that drive. Ultimately ACV's share price motored ahead by more than 20% during the week, according to data compiled by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
On Wednesday, ACV lifted the hood on its fourth-quarter and full-year results. The used car auctioneer suffered a slight decline in revenue on a year-over-year basis, which actually wasn't a bad showing given how weak the used vehicle market has been lately.
And although its top-line figure came in under the average analyst estimate, the company posted a narrower-than-expected GAAP net loss. 
The road ahead should be fairly traffic-free. ACV guided for revenue growth in 2023 more robust than the prognosticators' consensus forecasts, and said it expects to narrow its non-GAAP (adjusted) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) losses.
That was encouraging enough to earn price target raises for the stock from several heavy-hitting researchers. Goldman Sachs's Eric Sheridan revved his price target nearly 30% higher -- he now feels ACV will hit $15.50 per share, up from $12. Sheridan maintained his buy recommendation on the shares.
Ronald Josey of financial sector powerhouse Citigroup also gave his ACV price target some gas. His new level is $14 per share, up from $11 per share previously. Like Sheridan, Josey kept a buy recommendation on the company. 
10 stocks we like better than ACV AuctionsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and ACV Auctions wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Citigroup is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Goldman Sachs Group. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.