February 24, 2023 — 06:27 pm EST

      Written by
                        Joe Tenebruso for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Shares of Medical Properties Trust (NYSE: MPW) fell 5.3% on Friday after a closely watched measure of inflation came in higher than expected. 
The Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) price index (which excludes food and energy costs) rose 0.6% in January and 4.7% year over year, according to the Department of Commerce. That was a larger increase than Wall Street projected.
The unwelcome news raises the probability that the Federal Reserve will need to continue to raise interest rates to slow the relentless rise in the prices of goods and services.
Higher rates would likely make it more difficult for Medical Properties Trust, a real estate investment trust (REIT), to find value-creating investment opportunities.
"We have a great pipeline, but until we get a new norm for where interest rates are around the world, there's not going to be a whole lot of acquisitions from us," CEO Ed Aldag said during the company's fourth-quarterearnings callon Thursday. 
As a healthcare-focused REIT, Medical Properties Trust is tasked with identifying attractive properties, leasing them to well-qualified tenants, and passing the profits on to its shareholders. Rising interest rates can make this otherwise simple formula quite challenging by increasing the company's financing costs and reducing profits for investors.
Yet the potential impact of higher rates is arguably already reflected in the share price of Medical Properties Trust. Its stock now trades for less than 6 times its normalized funds from operations in 2022. That's quite a bargain for a high-quality REIT.
10 stocks we like better than Medical Properties TrustWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Medical Properties Trust wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Joe Tenebruso has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.