February 24, 2023 — 06:08 pm EST

      Written by
                        Eric Volkman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


The past week was very eventful for biotech Apellis Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: APLS). Following news of a crucial regulatory nod last Friday afternoon, the company has since reported earnings and announced a new round of capital raising. Investors took all of this positively, and as a result the company's share price shot 20% higher this week, according to data compiled by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
That nod was provided by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which granted approval for Apellis' Syfore. This, the company isn't hesitant to point out, makes Syfore the first FDA-approved treatment for geographic atrophy secondary to age-related macular degeneration, a relatively common eye disorder frequently suffered by older people. 
This was closely followed by Apellis' release of its fourth-quarter and full-year 2022 results. The quarter saw the biotech earn $22.6 million, which was down from the year-ago tally of $60.3 million. Net loss deepened but not drastically, landing at almost $166 million ($1.50 per share) against the fourth-quarter 2021 deficit of $148 million. On average, analysts were projecting $24.3 million in revenue and $1.51 per share for net loss. 
Finally, Apellis on Thursday said it would float just over 3.17 million shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price of $63 per share. Interested parties can opt to purchase pre-funded warrants for that price minus a fraction of $0.01; up to slightly more than 2.38 million shares will be made available in this manner. The offering should close on Monday, Feb. 27. 
In its regulatory filing on the stock/warrant issue, Apellis said it expects to raise between $333 million and $383 million in funding. This is to be utilized to support the commercialization efforts of Syfore and its other approved drug, Empaveli, which treats a rare blood disorder called paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH).  
The monies will also be channeled into other research efforts, plus "working capital and other general corporate purposes."
10 stocks we like better than Apellis PharmaceuticalsWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Apellis Pharmaceuticals wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.