February 24, 2023 — 04:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Dana George for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
Wells Fargo Bank has recently been on the hot seat. In December, the bank was ordered by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to pay a total of $3.7 billion for mismanagement of auto loans, mortgage loans, and deposit accounts.
According to the CFPB, the bank repeatedly misapplied loan payments. These improperly applied payments led to home foreclosures, repossessed vehicles, and incorrectly assessed fees and interest payments. There were also surprise overdraft fees that left customers confused and frustrated. CFPB estimates that these practices impacted more than 16 million Wells Fargo customers.


Save: This credit card has one of the longest 0% intro APR periods around
More: Save while you pay off debt with one of these top-rated balance transfer credit cards
The bank was ordered to pay a total of $3.7 billion in penalties, more than $2 billion of which is to go to customers impacted by the bank errors. The CFPB laid out the specific ways Wells Fargo customers were harmed:
Once an agreement was reached with the CFPB, Wells Fargo did not waste any time contacting as many of the 16 million customers as it could locate. However, because the unfair practices took place over a span of years, some consumers have been difficult to pin down. For example, some have moved and left no forwarding address, while others have changed their contact information, or simply switched banks.
If you were a Wells Fargo customer who was harmed by its practices but have yet to receive payment, your next step is easy. First, contact Wells Fargo at 1 (800) 869-3557. Let them know more about your situation, including why you've been difficult to locate.
If you don't get anywhere with the bank, you can call CFPB toll free at 1 (855) 411-2372. They will provide you with the information you need to receive compensation for your trouble.
As a government agency, CFPB is designed to ensure that you're treated fairly by banks, lenders, and other financial institutions. If that's not the case, CFPB has the authority to enforce federal protections on your behalf.
Many people are missing out on guaranteed returns as their money languishes in a big bank savings account earning next to no interest. Our picks of the best online savings accounts can earn you 13x the national average savings account rate. Click here to uncover the best-in-class picks that landed a spot on our shortlist of the best savings accounts for 2023.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.Wells Fargo is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Dana George has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.