February 24, 2023 — 03:32 pm EST

      Written by
                        BNK Invest for                             
        




BNK Invest ->


In this series, we look through the most recent Dividend Channel ''DividendRank'' report, and then we cherry pick only those companies that have experienced insider buying within the past six months.  The officers and directors of a company tend to have a unique insider's view of the business, and presumably the only reason an insider would choose to take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock in the open market, is that they expect to make money — maybe they find the stock very undervalued, or maybe they see exciting progress within the company, or maybe both.  So when stocks turn up that see insider buying, and are also top ranked, investors are wise to take notice.  One such company is Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital Inc (Symbol: HASI), which saw buying by Director Steven G. Osgood.




Back on November 10, Osgood invested $32,100.00 into 1,000 shares of HASI, for a cost per share of $32.10.  In trading on Friday, bargain hunters could buy shares of Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital Inc (Symbol: HASI) and achieve a cost basis 2.0% cheaper than Osgood, with shares changing hands as low as $31.45 per share.    It should be noted that Osgood has collected $0.38/share in dividends since the time of their purchase, so they are currently down 0.8% on their purchase from a total return basis.  Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital Inc shares are currently trading -3.17% on the day.  The chart below shows the one year performance of HASI shares, versus its 200 day moving average:













Looking at the chart above, HASI's low point in its 52 week range is $21.57 per share, with $51.71 as the 52 week high point — that compares with a last trade of $31.48.  By comparison, below is a table showing the prices at which insider buying was recorded over the last six months:




The DividendRank report noted that among the coverage universe, HASI shares displayed both attractive valuation metrics and strong profitability metrics.  For example, the recent HASI share price of $32.54 represents a price-to-book ratio of 1.8 and an annual dividend yield of 4.86% — by comparison, the average company in Dividend Channel's coverage universe yields 4.5% and trades at a price-to-book ratio of 2.4.  The report also cited the strong quarterly dividend history at Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital Inc, and favorable long-term multi-year growth rates in key fundamental data points.


The report stated, ''Dividend investors approaching investing from a value standpoint are generally most interested in researching the strongest most profitable companies, that also happen to be trading at an attractive valuation.  That's what we aim to find using our proprietary DividendRank formula, which ranks the coverage universe based upon our various criteria for both profitability and valuation, to generate a list of the top most 'interesting' stocks, meant for investors as a source of ideas that merit further research.''


The annualized dividend paid by Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital Inc is $1.58/share, currently paid in quarterly installments, and its most recent dividend ex-date was on 03/31/2023.  Below is a long-term dividend history chart for HASI, which the report stressed as being of key importance.  Indeed, studying a company's past dividend history can be of good help in judging whether the most recent dividend is likely to continue.













The Top DividendRank'ed Stocks With Insider Buying »



The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.