February 24, 2023 — 03:00 pm EST

      Written by
                        Maurie Backman for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Image source: Getty Images
As a credit card holder, you know you're supposed to pay your bills on time every month. And to be clear, you're considered timely even if you're only able to make your minimum payment.
But sometimes, things happen. You might simply forget to make a payment on a credit card. Or, you might run out of money in your checking account, forcing you to be late with a payment even though you haven't forgotten about it.


Save: This credit card has one of the longest intro 0% interest periods around
More: Save while you pay off debt with one of these top-rated balance transfer credit cards
You might think that a single late credit card payment isn't such a big deal. But actually, it could cause extensive damage to your credit score.
Your payment history, which measures how timely you are in paying bills, is the most influential factor in calculating your credit score. Experian confirms that it accounts for about 35% of your score. So it stands to reason that if you're dinged in that area, your credit score could drop quite a bit.
Once you're late with a credit card payment, the issuer in question is likely to report that activity to the credit bureaus. And depending on your credit score, that single late payment could have a huge impact.
Now, this may seem counterintuitive, but actually, the higher your credit score, the more damage a single late payment might cause. The reason? If you're someone who has a lower credit score, it means you've probably had a string of late payments already, and so another one isn't such a big deal (even though it's not a good thing). But if a late payment is an unusual thing for you, it might cause your score to drop by a larger number of points.
Worse yet, a single late payment on a credit card could remain on your credit report for up to seven years. Thankfully, its impact on your credit score will wane over time. But either way, that's a black mark that could stay on your record much longer than you'd like it to, so your best bet is to avoid being late with a credit card payment if you can.
Setting calendar reminders could help you avoid late credit card payments due to forgetfulness. But often, it's a lack of money, not a lack of remembering, that causes consumers to be late paying their bills.
To avoid that fate, aim to build yourself an emergency fund so you have cash reserves to tap in case you can't make your minimum payment in a given month. And also, make a point of checking your credit card balances every week.
That way, if you see your balances starting to creep upward, it might prompt you to stop spending. It might also prompt you to spread your purchases out more carefully so as to allow certain charges to hit your next billing cycle, buying you some breathing room.
Finally, if you're late with a credit card payment but it's the first time that's happened, and you've had your card open for a long time, call your credit card issuer, explain the situation, and ask for a little leeway. If you're able to make your minimum payment on the spot, in some cases, your credit card company might agree not to report you as delinquent on that payment. This isn't guaranteed to work, but it's worth a try if it means potentially avoiding credit score damage.
If you have credit card debt, transferring it to this top balance transfer card secures you a 0% intro APR for up to 21 months! Plus, you'll pay no annual fee. Those are just a few reasons why our experts rate this card as a top pick to help get control of your debt. Read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes.
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers.
  The Ascent does not cover all offers on the market. Editorial content from The Ascent is separate from The Motley Fool editorial content and is created by a different analyst team.The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.