February 24, 2023 — 02:21 pm EST

      Written by
                        Demitri Kalogeropoulos for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


SpartanNash (NASDAQ: SPTN) investors underperformed a declining market this week. Shares were down 15% through early afternoon trading on Friday compared to a 2.8% slump in the S&P 500, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence. The food supplier's shares are now down 9% so far in 2023 compared to a 3% increase in the wider market.
This week's decline was sparked by management's fourth-quarter earnings report, which also contained an updated outlook for the 2023 year ahead.
SpartanNash announced a solid 10% sales increase for the period that ran through late December. Management said the results exceeded their expectations. However, Wall Street zeroed in on a few warning signs in the report .
SpartanNash reported lower volume in both its wholesale and retail segments, for example, meaning its growth this quarter came entirely from higher prices. And profitability declined anyway, with gross profit margin dipping to 14.8% of sales from 15.4% of sales a year ago. These trends describe increasing pressures on the consumer staples business through late 2022 as consumers became more price-sensitive in their grocery shopping.
The good news is that SpartanNash believes the higher prices will allow for significant sales growth in 2023 and beyond. Management is calling for as much as $10.2 billion of annual sales this year compared to $9.6 billion in 2022. Executives raised their long-term targets as well, targeting at least $10.5 billion of annual revenue by 2025. Management says these updates indicate that the company "has now pivoted to growth."
Wall Street isn't so sure. Given the weak sales volume and profitability trends, SpartanNash is still missing some important ingredients of a high-performing growth stock. It's encouraging to see steady revenue growth in a tough selling environment. But investors are hoping that these wins will soon start arriving in the context of expanding margins, too.
10 stocks we like better than SpartanNashWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and SpartanNash wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of February 8, 2023
 
Demitri Kalogeropoulos has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.