March 16, 2023 — 11:00 am EDT

      Written by
                        Travis Hoium for                             
        




The Motley Fool ->


Coinbase (NASDAQ: COIN) faced a number of questions over the weekend as the USDC stablecoin ran into questions about its deposits in U.S. banks. This is a business that generates hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for Coinbase, so it's a big earnings driver. Travis Hoium dives into what happened and how to think about Coinbase's cash cow right now.
*Stock prices used were end-of-day prices of March 15, 2023. The video was published on March 16, 2023.

10 stocks we like better than Coinbase GlobalWhen our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*
They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Coinbase Global wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.
See the 10 stocks
 
*Stock Advisor returns as of March 8, 2023
 
SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Travis Hoium has positions in Coinbase Global, Ethereum, and Solana. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Coinbase Global, Ethereum, SVB Financial, and Solana. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Travis Hoium is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through their link they will earn some extra money that supports their channel. Their opinions remain their own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool. 
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.

© 2023, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.










To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
To add symbols:


These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.